================================================================================
CIK: 0001031296
Company Name: FIRSTENERGY CORP
Filing Date: 2021-02-18
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-01 13:22:09
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and in other sections of this Form 10-K that include forward-looking and other statements involving risks and uncertainties that could impact our business and financial results.
Risks Associated with the Ongoing Investigations
We Have Received Requests for Information Related to Government Investigations. The Investigations and Related Litigation Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Reputation, Business, Financial Condition, Results of Operations, Liquidity or Cash Flows
On July 21, 2020, we received subpoenas for records from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the S.D. Ohio requesting the production of information concerning an investigation surrounding HB 6 involving the now former Ohio House Speaker Larry Householder and other individuals and entities allegedly affiliated with Mr. Householder. Following the announcement of the investigation surrounding HB 6, certain of our stockholders and customers filed several lawsuits against us and certain current and former directors, officers and other employees. In addition, on August 10, 2020, the SEC, through its Division of Enforcement, issued an order directing an investigation of possible securities laws violations by FirstEnergy, and on September 1, 2020, issued subpoenas to FirstEnergy and certain of its officers. We are cooperating with the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the SEC in their investigations. See Note 15, “Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional details on the government investigation and subsequent litigation surrounding the investigation of HB 6.

The investigations and related litigation could divert management’s focus and have resulted, and could continue to result in substantial investigation expenses, and the commitment of substantial corporate resources. The outcome of the government investigations and related litigation is inherently uncertain. If one or more legal matters, including the ongoing investigation, were resolved against us, our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows may be adversely affected. Further, such an outcome could result in criminal liabilities, deferred prosecution agreements, significant monetary damages and fines, remedial corporate measures or other relief against us that could adversely impact our operations; in addition, certain of those outcomes could adversely impact our ability to maintain compliance with the covenants under our credit facilities or result in an event of default thereunder. These matters are likely to continue to have an adverse impact on the trading prices of our securities.

We are unable to predict the outcome, duration, scope, result or related costs of the investigations and related litigation and, therefore, any of these risks could impact us significantly beyond expectations. Moreover, we are unable to predict the potential for any additional investigations or litigation, any of which could exacerbate these risks or expose us to potential criminal or civil liabilities, sanctions or other remedial measures, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows.

We Have Received Requests for Information Related to Government Investigations. Related Potential Adverse Impacts on Federal or State Regulatory Matters Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Reputation, Business, Financial Condition, Results of Operations, Liquidity or Cash Flows

On July 21, 2020, we received subpoenas for records from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the S.D. Ohio requesting the production of information concerning an investigation surrounding HB 6 involving the now former Ohio House Speaker Larry Householder and other individuals and entities allegedly affiliated with Mr. Householder. On January 26, 2021, staff of FERC’s Division of Investigations issued a letter directing FirstEnergy to preserve and maintain all documents and information related to an ongoing audit being conducted by FERC’s Division of Audits and Accounting, including activities relating to lobbying and governmental affairs activities concerning HB 6. We are cooperating with the FERC in the ongoing audit and document preservation request. See Note 14, "Regulatory Matters," and Note 15, “Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional details on the government investigation and regulatory matters related to the investigation of HB 6.

We are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. As previously disclosed, among the matters considered with respect to the determination by the committee of independent members of the Board of Directors to terminate certain former members of senior management for violating certain FirstEnergy policies and its code of conduct related to a payment of approximately $4 million made in early 2019 in connection with the termination of a purported consulting agreement, as amended, which had been in place since 2013. The counterparty to such agreement was an entity associated with an individual who subsequently was appointed to a full-time role as an Ohio government official directly involved in regulating the Ohio Companies, including with respect to distribution rates. FirstEnergy believes that payments under the consulting agreement may have been for purposes other than those represented

9

within the consulting agreement. The matter is a subject of the ongoing internal investigation related to the government investigations.

Any appearance of non-compliance with anti-corruption laws, as well as any alleged failures to comply with anti-corruption laws, could have an adverse impact on our reputation or relationships with regulatory authorities, and result in a material inquiry or investigation by such federal, state and local regulatory agencies, and result in adverse rulings against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, operating results and operations.

For example, there are several regulatory matters associated with the ongoing governmental investigations including, but not limited to, the following:
•On September 15, 2020, the PUCO opened a new proceeding to review the political and charitable spending by the Ohio Companies in support of HB 6 and the subsequent referendum effort, directing the Ohio Companies to show cause, demonstrating that the costs of any political or charitable spending in support of HB 6, or the subsequent referendum effort, were not included, directly or indirectly, in any rates or charges paid by ratepayers.
•On November 4, 2020, the PUCO initiated an additional corporate separation audit as a result of the termination of certain members of senior management.
•On December 30, 2020, the PUCO reinstated the requirement that the Ohio Companies file a distribution rate case by May 31, 2024, which requirement had previously been eliminated by the PUCO in November 2019.
•Also on December 30, 2020, the PUCO reopened the DMR audit docket, and directed PUCO staff to solicit a third-party auditor and conduct a full review of the DMR to ensure funds collected from ratepayers through the DMR were only used for the purposes established in ESP IV.
•On January 26, 2021, staff of FERC's Division of Investigations issued a letter directing FirstEnergy to preserve and maintain all documents and information related to an ongoing audit being conducted by FERC's Division of Audits and Accounting, including activities related to lobbying and governmental affairs activities concerning HB 6.
•In connection with the partial settlement with the OAG and other parties, the Ohio Companies filed an application with the PUCO on February 1, 2021, to set the respective decoupling riders (Rider CSR) to zero and, in a related action, the Ohio Companies will not seek to recover lost distribution revenue from residential and commercial customers; as a result, FirstEnergy recognized a $108 million pre-tax charge ($84 million after-tax) in the fourth quarter of 2020 and $77 million (pre-tax) of which is associated with forgoing collection of lost distribution revenue.

While FirstEnergy is committed to pursuing an open dialogue with stakeholders in an appropriate manner with respect to the numerous regulatory proceedings currently underway, the rates our Utilities and transmission operating companies are allowed to charge may be decreased as a result of actions taken by FERC or by a state regulatory commission to which our Utilities is subject to jurisdiction, whether as a result of the ongoing government investigations, the appearance of non-compliance with anti-corruption laws, or otherwise. Also, in connection with the internal investigation, FirstEnergy recently identified certain transactions, which, in some instances, extended back ten years or more, including vendor services, that were either improperly classified, misallocated to certain of the Utilities and Transmission Companies, or lacked proper supporting documentation. These transactions resulted in amounts collected from customers that were immaterial to FirstEnergy, and the Utilities and Transmission Companies will be working with the appropriate regulatory agencies to address these amounts.

We are unable to predict the adverse impacts on federal or state regulatory matters, including with respect to rates, and, therefore, any of these risks could impact us significantly beyond expectations. Moreover, we are unable to predict the potential for any additional regulatory actions, any of which could exacerbate these risks or expose us to adverse outcomes in pending or future rate cases, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows.

We Have Identified a Material Weakness in our Internal Controls over Financial Reporting. If We Fail to Remediate such Material Weakness or Otherwise Fail to Develop, Implement and Maintain Effective Internal Controls in Future Periods, Our Ability to Report Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Accurately and on a Timely Basis Could Be Adversely Affected

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

As previously disclosed, a committee of independent members of our Board of Directors is directing an internal investigation related to ongoing government investigations. In connection with our internal investigation, such committee determined that certain former members of senior management, including our former chief executive officer, violated certain FirstEnergy policies and our code of conduct. Such former members of senior management did not maintain and promote a control environment with an appropriate tone of compliance in certain areas of FirstEnergy’s business, nor sufficiently promote, monitor or enforce adherence to certain FirstEnergy policies and its code of conduct. Furthermore, certain former members of senior management did not reasonably ensure that relevant information was communicated within our organization and not withheld from our independent directors, our Audit Committee, and our independent auditor. Among the matters considered with respect to the determination by the committee of independent members of the Board of Directors that certain former members of senior management violated certain FirstEnergy policies and its code of conduct related to a payment of approximately $4 million made in early 2019 in connection with the termination of a purported consulting agreement, as amended, which had been in place

10

since 2013. The counterparty to such agreement was an entity associated with an individual who subsequently was appointed to a full-time role as an Ohio government official directly involved in regulating the Ohio Companies, including with respect to distribution rates. FirstEnergy believes that payments under the consulting agreement may have been for purposes other than those represented within the consulting agreement. The matter is a subject of the ongoing internal investigation related to the government investigations.

During the preparation of FirstEnergy’s financial statements as of and for the quarter ended September 30, 2020, FirstEnergy identified a material weakness in that these certain former members of senior management did not set an appropriate tone at the top as discussed above, which are inconsistent with the standards to which FirstEnergy’s Board of Directors and senior management are committed.

This control deficiency did not result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements. However, this control deficiency could have resulted in material misstatements to the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not have been prevented or detected. Accordingly, our management has concluded that this control deficiency constitutes a material weakness.

A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.

We are in the process of remediating the identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.

We cannot assure you that we will adequately remediate the material weakness or that additional material weaknesses in our internal controls will not be identified in the future. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those internal control systems determined to be effective can provide only a level of reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in the implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, or could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. These misstatements could result in restatements of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Further, if we are unable to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, may violate applicable stock exchange listing rules or suffer other adverse regulatory consequences and may breach the covenants under our credit facilities. There could also be a negative reaction in the price of our common stock due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. See “Item 9a. Controls and Procedures” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the material weakness and our remediation plans.

Failure to Comply with Debt Covenants in our Credit Agreements or Conditions Could Adversely Affect our Ability to Execute Future Borrowings and/or Require Early Repayment, and Could Restrict our Ability to Obtain Additional or Replacement Financing on Acceptable Terms or at All

Our debt and credit agreements contain various financial and other covenants including a consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio of no more than 65% measured at the end of each fiscal quarter.

Our credit agreements contain certain negative and affirmative covenants. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our FE credit facility and FET credit facility may be affected by events related to the ongoing government investigations or otherwise.

On November 17, 2020, we and certain of our subsidiaries entered into amendments to the FE credit facility and the FET credit facility, respectively. The amendments provide for modifications and/or waivers of: (i) certain representations and warranties and (ii) certain affirmative and negative covenants, contained therein, which allowed FirstEnergy to regain compliance with such provisions. The non-compliance for which the waiver was necessary stemmed from the payment of approximately $4 million made in early 2019 in connection with the termination of a purported consulting agreement, as amended, which had been in place since 2013 with an entity associated with an individual who subsequently was appointed to a full-time role as an Ohio government official directly involved in regulating the Ohio Companies, including with respect to distribution rates. Among other things, the amendment to the FE credit facility reduces the sublimit applicable to FE to $1.5 billion, and the amendments increased certain tiers of pricing applicable to borrowings under the credit facilities. In addition, we may be required to seek additional covenant waivers in future periods, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such waivers on favorable terms, or at all.

A breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreements, including any breach related to alleged failures to comply with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, could result in an event of default under such agreements, and we would not be able to access our credit facilities for additional borrowings and letters of credit while any default exists. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, all amounts outstanding under our credit facilities, which was $2.2 billion as of February 15, 2021, could be declared to be immediately due and payable and all applicable commitments to extend further credit could be terminated. If indebtedness under our credit facilities is accelerated, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay the

11

indebtedness. In addition, certain events, including but not limited to any covenant breach related to alleged failures to comply with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, an event of default under our credit agreements, and the acceleration of applicable commitments under such facilities could restrict our ability to obtain additional or replacement financing on acceptable terms or at all. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facilities and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities.

Risks Associated with the Global Pandemic

The COVID-19 Global Pandemic Has Impacted Us and Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Financial Condition

The outbreak of COVID-19 has become a global pandemic and has impacted FirstEnergy. For instance, FirstEnergy’s Utilities discontinued power shutoffs as of March 13, 2020, across its five-state service territory and ceased billing for certain late payment charges, and while some of these have been rescinded, similar actions could occur in the future. Furthermore, in response to the pandemic and related mitigation measures, FirstEnergy has implemented its pandemic plan as well as other precautionary measures on behalf of its customers and employees, including supporting remote work opportunities for most of its employees. While FirstEnergy believes that all these measures have been necessary or appropriate, they have resulted in additional costs and may adversely impact its business and results of operation in the future or expose it to additional unknown risks.

Although it is not possible to predict the ultimate impact of COVID-19, including on FirstEnergy’s business, results of operations, cash flows or financial positions, such impacts that may be material include, but are not limited to: (i) lower commercial and industrial customer demand for electricity, (ii) impacts of rapidly-changing governmental and public health directives to contain and combat the pandemic together with executive and legislative initiatives imposing a moratorium on utility disconnections, (iii) increased credit risk, including increased failure or delay by customers to make their utility payments, (iv) reduced availability and productivity of its employees, (v) increased operational risks as a result of remote work arrangements, including the potential effects on internal controls, as well as cybersecurity risks and increased vulnerability to security breaches, information technology disruptions and other similar events, (vi) delays and disruptions in the availability of and timely delivery of materials and components used in its operations, as well as increased costs for such materials and components, (vii) continued volatility in market prices for our securities, and (viii) hampering our ability to access funds from financial institutions and the capital markets on the same or reasonably similar terms as were available to FirstEnergy before the COVID-19 pandemic. To the extent the duration of any of these conditions extends for a longer period of time, the adverse impact will generally be more severe.

Risks Associated with Regulation of Our Distribution and Transmission Businesses
We are Focusing on Growing Our Regulated Transmission and Regulated Distribution Operations. Whether This Investment Strategy Will Deliver the Desired Result Is Subject to Certain Risks Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition
We focus on capitalizing on investment opportunities available to our Regulated Transmission and Regulated Distribution operations as we focus on delivering enhanced customer service and reliability. The success of these efforts will depend, in part, on successful recovery of our transmission investments. Factors that may affect rate recovery of our transmission investments include: (1) FERC’s timely approval of rates to recover such investments; (2) whether the investments are included in PJM's RTEP; (3) FERC's evolving policies with respect to incentive rates for transmission assets; (4) FERC's evolving policies with respect to the calculation of the base ROE component of transmission rates; (5) consideration and potential impact of the objections of those who oppose such investments and their recovery; and (6) timely development, construction, and operation of the new facilities.
The success of these efforts will also depend, in part, on any future distribution rate cases or other filings seeking cost recovery for distribution system enhancements in the states where our Utilities operate and transmission rate filings at FERC. Any denial of, or delay in, the approval of any future distribution or transmission rate requests could restrict us from fully recovering our cost of service, may impose risks on the Regulated Distribution and Regulated Transmission operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our regulatory strategy, results of operations and financial condition.
Our efforts also could be impacted by our ability to finance the proposed expansion projects while maintaining adequate liquidity. There can be no assurance that our investment strategy in our Regulated Transmission and Regulated Distribution operations will deliver the desired result which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
Complex and Changing Government Regulations and Actions, Including Those Associated with Rates, Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Business, Financial Condition, Results of Operations and Cash Flows
We are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. Changes in, or reinterpretations of, existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could require us to incur additional costs or change the way we conduct our business, and therefore could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.

12

Our Utilities and Transmission Companies currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions. Thus, the rates the Utilities and Transmission Companies are allowed to charge may be decreased as a result of actions taken by FERC or by a state regulatory commission in the states in which our Utilities operate. Also, these rates may not be set to recover such applicable utility's expenses at any given time. Additionally, there may also be a delay between the timing of when costs are incurred and when costs are recovered, if at all. For example, we may be unable to timely recover the costs for our energy efficiency investments or expenses and additional capital or lost revenues resulting from the implementation of aggressive energy efficiency programs. While rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested capital and recovery of operating expenses, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will determine that all of our costs have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of our costs in a timely manner. Further, there can be no assurance that we will retain the expected recovery in future rate cases.
State Rate Regulation May Delay or Deny Full Recovery of Costs and Impose Risks on Our Operations. Any Denial of or Delay in Cost Recovery Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Results of Operations, Liquidity, Cash Flows and Financial Condition
Each of the Utilities' retail rates are set by its respective regulatory agency for utilities in the state in which it operates - in Maryland by the MDPSC, in New Jersey by the NJBPU, in Ohio by the PUCO, in Pennsylvania by the PPUC, in West Virginia by the WVPSC and in New York by the NYPSC - through traditional, cost-based regulated utility ratemaking. As a result, any of the Utilities may not be permitted to recover its costs and, even if it is able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time it incurs such costs and the time it is allowed to recover them. Factors that may affect outcomes in the distribution rate cases include: (i) the value of plant in service; (ii) authorized rate of return; (iii) capital structure (including hypothetical capital structures); (iv) depreciation rates; (v) the allocation of shared costs, including consolidated deferred income taxes and income taxes payable across the Utilities; (vi) regulatory approval of rate recovery mechanisms for capital spending programs; and (vii) the accuracy of forecasts used for ratemaking purposes in "future test year" cases.
FirstEnergy can provide no assurance that any base rate request filed by any of the Utilities will be granted in whole or in part. Any denial of, or delay in, any base rate request could restrict the applicable utility from fully recovering its costs of service, may impose risks on its operations, and may negatively impact its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that any of the Utilities seeks rate increases after an extended period of frozen or capped rates, pressure may be exerted on the applicable legislators and regulators to take steps to control rate increases, including through some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. Any related public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues that are ultimately obtained, and the ability of the Utility to recover costs. Such uncertainty may restrict operational flexibility and resources, reduce liquidity and increase financing costs.
Federal Rate Regulation May Delay or Deny Full Recovery of Costs and Impose Risks on Our Operations. Any Denial or Reduction of, or Delay in Cost Recovery Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Financial Condition
FERC policy currently permits recovery of prudently incurred costs associated with cost-of-service-based wholesale power rates and the expansion and updating of transmission infrastructure within its jurisdiction. FERC’s policies on recovery of transmission costs continue to evolve, evidenced by ongoing proceedings to determine an appropriate ROE methodology to determine transmission ROEs and whether FERC’s existing policies on transmission rate incentives should be revised. If FERC were to adopt a different policy regarding recovery of transmission costs or if there is any resulting delay in cost recovery, our strategy of investing in transmission could be affected. If FERC were to lower the rate of return it has authorized for FirstEnergy's cost-based wholesale power rates or transmission investments and facilities, it could reduce future earnings and cash flows, and adversely impact our financial condition.
We Could be Subject to Higher Costs and/or Penalties Related to Mandatory Reliability Standards Set by NERC/FERC or Changes in the Rules of Organized Markets, Which Could Have an Adverse Effect on our Financial Condition
Owners, operators, and users of the bulk electric system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and approved by FERC. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. NERC, RFC and FERC can be expected to continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as develop and adopt new reliability standards. Compliance with modified or new reliability standards may subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. If we were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. FERC has authority to impose penalties up to and including $1.3 million per day for failure to comply with these mandatory electric reliability standards.
In addition to direct regulation by FERC, we are also subject to rules and terms of participation imposed and administered by various RTOs and ISOs that can have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, the independent market monitors of ISOs and RTOs may impose bidding and scheduling rules to curb the perceived potential for exercise of market power and to ensure the markets function appropriately. Such actions may materially affect our ability to sell, and the price we

13

receive for, our energy and capacity. In addition, PJM may direct our transmission-owning affiliates to build new transmission facilities to meet PJM's reliability requirements or to provide new or expanded transmission service under the PJM Tariff.
We may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in RTO transmission rate design. We may be required to expand our transmission system according to decisions made by an RTO rather than our own internal planning processes. Various proposals and proceedings before FERC may cause transmission rates to change from time to time. In addition, RTOs have been developing rules associated with the allocation and methodology of assigning costs associated with improved transmission reliability, reduced transmission congestion and firm transmission rights that may have a financial impact on us.
As a member of an RTO, we are subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among members of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in that RTO’s market and those associated with complaint cases filed against the RTO that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by its members.
In June and July 2020, as part of the PJM stakeholder process, certain competing amendments to the PJM Tariff were filed. The PJM TOs filed amendments that clarified responsibility as between PJM and the PJM TOs for planning for transmission facilities that are at the end of their useful life. Certain load groups filed competing amendments that would transfer authority for such planning from the PJM TOs to PJM. PJM supported the PJM TOs' filing and opposed the load groups' filing. In a series of decisions beginning in August 2020 and running through December 2020, FERC approved the PJM TOs' amendments, and rejected the loads' amendments. Certain of the load groups have filed a petition for review of FERC's decision before the D.C. Circuit and such appeal is currently pending. It is reasonable to believe that the PJM load interests will continue their efforts to limit transmission owner discretion in planning and investing in transmission assets, and further regulatory and appellate cases are expected. The inability to control the investment planning process could adversely affect our business operations, including the Energizing the Future program. In addition, the inability to control the investment planning process for our transmission business could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition.

Risks Associated with Environmental and Climate Matters

Mandatory Renewable Portfolio Requirements, Energy Efficiency and Peak Demand Reduction Mandates and Energy Price Increases Could Negatively Impact Our Financial Results
Where federal or state legislation mandates the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal and such legislation does not also provide for adequate cost recovery, it could result in significant changes in our business, including material increases in REC purchase costs, purchased power costs and capital expenditures. Such mandatory renewable portfolio requirements may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
A number of regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce peak demand and energy consumption. Such conservation programs could result in load reduction and adversely impact our financial results in different ways. We currently have energy efficiency riders in place in certain of our states to recover the cost of these programs either at or near a current recovery time frame in the states where we operate.
In our regulated operations, conservation could negatively impact us depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. Should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact. We have already been adversely impacted by reduced electric usage due in part to energy conservation efforts such as the use of efficient lighting products such as CFLs, halogens and LEDs. We could also be adversely impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. We are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on our financial condition or results of operations.
Additionally, failure to meet regulatory or legislative requirements to reduce energy consumption or otherwise increase energy efficiency could result in penalties that could adversely affect our financial results.
We Have Coal-Fired Generation Capacity, Which Exposes Us to Risk from Regulations Relating to Coal, GHGs and CCRs and Could Lead to Increased Costs or the Need to Spend Significant Resources to Defend Allegations of Violation
Approximately 82% of FirstEnergy's generation capacity is coal-fired, totaling 3,160 MW, increasing to 88% upon completion of the Yards Creek sale. Historically, coal-fired generating plants have greater exposure to the costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air emissions, including GHGs and CCR disposal, than other types of electric generation facilities. These legal requirements and any future initiatives could impose substantial additional costs and, in the case of GHG requirements, could raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities and could require our coal-fired generation plants to curtail generation or cease to generate. Failure to comply with any such existing or future legal requirements may also result in the assessment of fines and penalties. Significant resources also may be expended to defend against allegations of violations of any such requirements.

14

The EPA is Conducting NSR Investigations at Generating Plants that We Currently or Formerly Owned, the Results of Which Could Negatively Impact Our Results of Business Operations, Cash Flows and Financial Condition
We may be subject to risks from changing or conflicting interpretations of existing laws and regulations, including, for example, the applicability of the EPA's NSR programs. Under the CAA, modification of our generation facilities in a manner that results in increased emissions could subject our existing generation facilities to the far more stringent new source standards applicable to new generation facilities.
The EPA has taken the view that many companies, including many energy producers, have been modifying emissions sources in violation of NSR standards during work considered by the companies to be routine maintenance. The EPA has investigated alleged violations of the NSR standards at certain of our existing and former generating facilities. We intend to vigorously pursue and defend our position, but we are unable to predict their outcomes. If NSR and similar requirements are imposed on our generation facilities, in addition to the possible imposition of fines, compliance could entail significant capital investments in pollution control technology, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.
Costs of Compliance with Environmental Laws are Significant, and the Cost of Compliance with New Environmental Laws, Including Limitations on GHG Emissions Related to Climate Change, Could Adversely Affect Cash Flows and Financial Condition
Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to incur costs for, among other things, installation and operation of pollution control equipment, emissions monitoring and fees, remediation and permitting at our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in the past and may increase in the future. We may be forced to shut down other facilities or change their operating status, either temporarily or permanently, if we are unable to comply with these or other existing or new environmental requirements, or if the expenditures required to comply with such requirements are unreasonable.
Moreover, new environmental laws or regulations including, but not limited to GHG Emissions, CWA effluent limitations imposing more stringent water discharge regulations, or other changes to existing environmental laws or regulations may materially increase our costs of compliance or accelerate the timing of capital expenditures. Our compliance strategy, including but not limited to, our assumptions regarding estimated compliance costs, although reasonably based on available information, may not successfully address future relevant standards and interpretations. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or new interpretations of longstanding requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal liability and fines. In addition, any alleged violation of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources to defend against any such alleged violations. Due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce GHG emissions, any legal obligation that requires substantial reductions of GHG emissions could result in substantial additional costs, adversely affecting cash flows and profitability, and raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, particularly coal, as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities.
We Are or May Be Subject to Environmental Liabilities, Including Costs of Remediation of Environmental Contamination at Current or Formerly Owned Facilities, Which Could Have a Material Adverse effect on Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition
We may be subject to liability under environmental laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned or operated by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances that we may have generated regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. We are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and we may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. We also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. Remediation activities associated with our former MGP operations are one source of such costs. Citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. We cannot predict the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to such environmental matters, although we expect that they could be material. In addition, there can be no assurance that any liabilities, losses or expenditures we may incur related to such environmental liabilities or contamination will be covered under any applicable insurance policies or that the amount of insurance will be adequate.
In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from us has assumed the liability we may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability or disputes its responsibility, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold us responsible, and our remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee.

15

The Risks Associated with Climate Change May Have an Adverse Impact on Our Business Operations, Financial Condition and Cash Flows
Physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of our operations. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. An extreme weather event within the Utilities' service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. Further, as extreme weather conditions increase system stress, we may incur costs relating to additional system backup or service interruptions, and in some instances, we may be unable to recover such costs. For all of these reasons, these physical risks could have an adverse financial impact on our business operations, financial condition and cash flows. Climate change poses other financial risks as well. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, customers’ energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes. Increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in additional system assets and purchase additional power. Additionally, decreased energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition through decreased rates, revenues, margins or earnings.
We Could be Exposed to Private Rights of Action Relating to Environmental Matters Seeking Damages Under Various State and Federal Law Theories Which Could Have an Adverse Impact on Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Business Operations
Private individuals may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury, property damages or other relief. For example, claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that CO2 emissions from power generating facilities constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. While FirstEnergy is not a party to this litigation, it, and/or one of its subsidiaries, could be named in other actions making similar allegations. An unfavorable ruling in any such case could result in the need to make modifications to our coal-fired plants or reduce emissions, suspend operations or pay money damages or penalties. Adverse rulings in these or other types of actions could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and could significantly impact our business operations.
We Are and May Become Subject to Legal Claims Arising from the Presence of Asbestos or Other Regulated Substances at Some of Our Facilities that May Have an Adverse Impact on our Business Operations, Financial Condition and Cash Flows
We have been named as a defendant in pending asbestos litigations involving multiple plaintiffs and multiple defendants, in several states. The majority of these claims arise out of alleged past exposures by contractors (and in Pennsylvania, former employees) at both currently and formerly owned electric generation plants. In addition, asbestos and other regulated substances are, and may continue to be, present at currently owned facilities where suitable alternative materials are not available. We believe that any remaining asbestos at our facilities is contained and properly identified in accordance with applicable governmental regulations, including OSHA. The continued presence of asbestos and other regulated substances at these facilities, however, could result in additional actions being brought against us. This is further complicated by the fact that many diseases, such as mesothelioma and cancer, have long latency periods in which the disease process develops, thus making it impossible to accurately predict the types and numbers of such claims in the near future. While insurance coverages exist for many of these pending asbestos litigations, others have no such coverages, resulting in FirstEnergy being responsible for all defense expenditures, as well as any settlements or verdict payouts.
Risks Related to Business Operations Generally
Temperature Variations as well as Severe Weather Conditions or other Natural Disasters Could Have an Adverse Impact on Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electric power. Demand for power generally peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also typically peaking at that time. Overall operating results may fluctuate based on weather conditions. In addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently received less revenue, when weather conditions are milder. Severe weather, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, ice or snowstorms, droughts, high winds or other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage that may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured and that may not be recoverable from customers. The effect of the failure of our facilities to operate as planned under these conditions would be particularly burdensome during a peak demand period and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
We Are Subject to Financial Performance Risks from Regional and General Economic Cycles as Well as Heavy Industries such as Shale Gas, Automotive and Steel
Our business follows economic cycles. Economic conditions impact the demand for electricity and declines in the demand for electricity will reduce our revenues. The regional economy in which our Utilities operate is influenced by conditions in industries

16

in our business territories, e.g. shale gas, automotive, chemical, steel and other heavy industries, and as these conditions change, our revenues will be impacted.

We Are Subject to Risks Arising from the Operation of Our Power Plants and Transmission and Distribution Equipment Which Could Reduce Revenues, Increase Expenses and Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves risk, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, human error in operations or maintenance, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental requirements and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. In addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. Because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties.
Failure to Provide Safe and Reliable Service and Equipment Could Result in Serious Injury or Loss of Life That May Harm Our Business Reputation and Adversely Affect Our Operating Results
We are committed to provide safe and reliable service and equipment in our franchised service territories. Meeting this commitment requires the expenditure of significant capital resources. However, our employees, contractors and the general public may be exposed to dangerous environments due to the nature of our operations. Failure to provide safe and reliable service and equipment due to various factors, including equipment failure, accidents and weather, could result in serious injury or loss of life that may harm our business reputation and adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues, increased capital and operating costs, litigation or the imposition of penalties/fines or other adverse regulatory outcomes.
Cyber-Attacks, Data Security Breaches and Other Disruptions to Our Information Technology Systems Could Compromise Our Business Operations, Critical and Proprietary Information and Employee and Customer Data, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Reputation
In the ordinary course of our business, we depend on information technology systems that utilize sophisticated operational systems and network infrastructure to run all facets of our generation, transmission and distribution services. Additionally, we store sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary or personally identifiable information regarding our business, employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, business partners and other individuals in our data centers and on our networks. The secure maintenance of information and information technology systems is critical to our operations.
Over the last several years, there has been an increase in the frequency of cyber-attacks by terrorists, hackers, international activist organizations, countries and individuals. These and other unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our network systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business in many ways, including directly through our network infrastructure or through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our employees, contractors and temporary staff. Additionally, our information and information technology systems may be increasingly vulnerable to data security breaches, damage and/or interruption due to viruses, human error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other malfunctions and disruptions. Further, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information and/or security.
Despite security measures and safeguards we have employed, including certain measures implemented pursuant to mandatory NERC Critical Infrastructure Protection standards, our infrastructure may be increasingly vulnerable to such attacks as a result of the rapidly evolving and increasingly sophisticated means by which attempts to defeat our security measures and gain access to our information technology systems may be made. Also, we may be at an increased risk of a cyber-attack and/or data security breach due to the nature of our business.
Any such cyber-attack, data security breach, damage, interruption and/or defect could: (i) disable our generation, transmission (including our interconnected regional transmission grid) and/or distribution services for a significant period of time; (ii) delay development and construction of new facilities or capital improvement projects; (iii) adversely affect our customer operations; (iv) corrupt data; and/or (v) result in unauthorized access to the information stored in our data centers and on our networks, including, company proprietary information, supplier information, employee data, and personal customer data, causing the information to be publicly disclosed, lost or stolen or result in incidents that could result in economic loss and liability and harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. Additionally, because our generation, transmission and distribution services are part of an interconnected system, disruption caused by a cybersecurity incident at another utility, electric generator, RTO, or commodity supplier could also adversely affect our operations.
Although we maintain cyber insurance and property and casualty insurance, there can be no assurance that liabilities or losses we may incur, including as a result of cybersecurity-related litigation, will be covered under such policies or that the amount of insurance will be adequate. Further, as cyber threats become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, there can

17

be no assurance that we can implement adequate preventive measures, accurately assess the likelihood of a cyber-incident or quantify potential liabilities or losses. Also, we may not discover any data security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the data security breach occurs.
For all of these reasons, any such cyber incident could result in significant lost revenue, the inability to conduct critical business functions and serve customers for a significant period of time, the use of significant management resources, legal claims or proceedings, regulatory penalties, significant remediation costs, increased regulation, increased capital costs, increased protection costs for enhanced cybersecurity systems or personnel, damage to our reputation and/or the rendering of our internal controls ineffective, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation.
Physical Acts of War, Terrorism or Other Attacks on any of Our Facilities or Other Infrastructure Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Financial Condition
As a result of the continued threat of physical acts of war, terrorism, or other attacks in the United States, our electric generation, fuel storage, transmission and distribution facilities and other infrastructure, including power plants, transformer and high voltage lines and substations, or the facilities or other infrastructure of an interconnected company, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war, terrorism, or other attack, which could result in disruption of our ability to generate, purchase, transmit or distribute electricity for a significant period of time, otherwise disrupt our customer operations and/or result in incidents that could result in harmful effects on the environment and human health, including loss of life. Any such disruption or incident could result in a significant decrease in revenue, significant additional capital and operating costs, including costs to implement additional security systems or personnel to purchase electricity and to replace or repair our assets over and above any available insurance reimbursement, higher insurance deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive insurance policies, legal claims or proceedings, greater regulation with higher attendant costs, generally, and significant damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.
Capital Improvements and Construction Projects May Not be Completed Within Forecasted Budget, Schedule or Scope Parameters or Could be Canceled Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations
Our business plan calls for execution of extensive capital investments in transmission and distribution, including but not limited to our Energizing the Future transmission expansion program. We also anticipate spending up to $1.7 billion per year in distribution capital expenditures through 2023. We may be exposed to the risk of substantial price increases in, or the adequacy or availability of, the costs of labor and materials used in construction, nonperformance of equipment and increased costs due to delays, including delays relating to the procurement of permits or approvals, adverse weather or environmental matters. We engage numerous contractors and enter into a large number of construction agreements to acquire the necessary materials and/or obtain the required construction-related services. As a result, we are also exposed to the risk that these contractors and other counterparties could breach their obligations to us. Such risk could include our contractors’ inabilities to procure sufficient skilled labor as well as potential work stoppages by that labor force. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements at then-current market prices that may exceed our contractual prices, with resulting delays in those and other projects. Although our agreements are designed to mitigate the consequences of a potential default by the counterparty, our actual exposure may be greater than these mitigation provisions. Also, because we enter into construction agreements for the necessary materials and to obtain the required construction related services, any cancellation by FirstEnergy of a construction agreement could result in significant termination payments or penalties. Any delays, increased costs or losses or cancellation of a construction project could adversely affect our business and results of operations, particularly if we are not permitted to recover any such costs in rates.
The Outcome of Litigation, Arbitration, Mediation, and Similar Proceedings Involving Our Business, or That of One or More of Our Operating Subsidiaries, Is Unpredictable and an Adverse Decision in Any Material Proceeding Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations
We are involved in a number of litigation, arbitration, mediation, and similar proceedings. These and other matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. Further, no assurances can be given that the resolution of these matters will be favorable to us. If certain matters were ultimately resolved unfavorably to us, the results of operations and financial condition of FirstEnergy could be materially adversely impacted.
In addition, we are sometimes subject to investigations and inquiries by various state and federal regulators due to the heavily regulated nature of our industry. Any material inquiry or investigation could potentially result in an adverse ruling against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results.
We Face Certain Human Resource Risks Associated with Potential Labor Disruptions and/or With the Availability of Trained and Qualified Labor to Meet Our Future Staffing Requirements
We are continually challenged to find ways to balance the retention of our aging skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to mitigate losses in critical knowledge and skills due to retirements. Additionally, a significant number of our physical workforce are

18

represented by unions. While we believe that our relations with our employees are generally fair, we cannot provide assurances that the company will be completely free of labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, lockouts or that any labor disruption will be favorably resolved. Mitigating these risks could require additional financial commitments and the failure to prevent labor disruptions and retain and/or attract trained and qualified labor could have an adverse effect on our business.
Significant Increases in Our Operation and Maintenance Expenses, Including Our Health Care and Pension Costs, Could Adversely Affect Our Future Earnings and Liquidity
We continually focus on limiting, and reducing where possible, our operation and maintenance expenses. However, we expect to continue to face increased cost pressures related to operation and maintenance expenses, including in the areas of health care and pension costs. We have experienced health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our cash outlay for health care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase despite measures that we have taken requiring employees and retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care benefits. The measurement of our expected future health care and pension obligations and costs is highly dependent on a variety of assumptions, many of which relate to factors beyond our control. These assumptions include investment returns, interest rates, discount rates, health care cost trends, benefit design changes, salary increases, the demographics of plan participants and regulatory requirements. While we anticipate that our operation and maintenance expenses will continue to increase, if actual results differ materially from our assumptions, our costs could be significantly higher than expected which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
Changes in Technology and Regulatory Policies May Make Our Facilities Significantly Less Competitive and Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations
Traditionally, electricity is generated at large, central station generation facilities. This method results in economies of scale and lower unit costs than newer generation technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. It is possible that advances in newer generation technologies will make newer generation technologies more cost-effective, or that changes in regulatory policy will create benefits that otherwise make these newer generation technologies even more competitive with central station electricity production. To the extent that newer generation technologies are connected directly to load, bypassing the transmission and distribution systems, potential impacts could include decreased transmission and distribution revenues, stranded assets and increased uncertainty in load forecasting and integrated resource planning and could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Energy Companies are Subject to Adverse Publicity Causing Less Favorable Regulatory and Legislative Outcomes Which Could have an Adverse Impact on Our Business
Energy companies, including the Utilities and Transmission Companies, have been the subject of criticism on matters including the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to power outages, such as those caused by storm damage. Adverse publicity of this nature, as well as negative publicity associated with the operation or bankruptcy of nuclear and/or coal-fired facilities or proceedings seeking regulatory recoveries may cause less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes and damage our reputation, which could have an adverse impact on our business.
Risks Associated with Markets and Financial Matters
Interest Rates and/or a Credit Rating Downgrade Could Negatively Affect Our or Our Subsidiaries' Financing Costs, Ability to Access Capital and Requirement to Post Collateral

We have near-term exposure to interest rates from outstanding indebtedness indexed to variable interest rates, and we have exposure to future interest rates to the extent we seek to raise debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations and fund construction or other investment opportunities. Past disruptions in capital and credit markets have resulted in higher interest rates on new publicly issued debt securities, increased costs for certain of our variable interest rate debt securities and failed remarketing of variable interest rate tax-exempt debt issued to finance certain of our facilities. Similar future disruptions could increase our financing costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Also, interest rates could change as a result of economic or other events that are beyond our risk management processes. As a result, we cannot always predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have if actual events lead to greater losses or costs that our risk management positions were intended to hedge. Although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results of operations.

We rely on access to bank and capital markets as sources of liquidity for cash requirements not satisfied by cash from operations. Additional downgrades in FirstEnergy or FirstEnergy subsidiaries' credit ratings from the nationally recognized credit rating agencies, particularly to levels below investment grade, could negatively affect our ability to access the bank and capital markets, especially in a time of uncertainty in either of those markets, and may require us to post cash collateral to support outstanding commodity positions in the wholesale market, as well as available letters of credit and other guarantees. Furthermore, additional downgrades could increase the cost of such capital by causing us to incur higher interest rates and fees

19

associated with such capital. Additional rating downgrades would further increase our interest expense on certain of FirstEnergy's long-term debt obligations and would also further increase the fees we pay on our various existing credit facilities, thus increasing the cost of our working capital. Such additional rating downgrades could also negatively impact our ability to grow our regulated businesses or execute on our business strategies by substantially increasing the cost of, or limiting access to, capital.

In addition, events related to the ongoing government investigations may expose us to higher interest rates for additional indebtedness, whether as a result of ratings downgrades or otherwise, and could restrict our ability to obtain additional or replacement financing on acceptable terms or at all. See “Failure to Comply with Debt Covenants in our Credit Agreements or Conditions Could Adversely Affect our Ability to Execute Future Borrowings and/or Require Early Repayment, and Could Restrict our Ability to Obtain Additional or Replacement Financing on Acceptable Terms or at All.”

Financial Risks Associated with Owning Coal-Fired Generation may have an Adverse Impact on our Business Operations, Financial Condition and Cash Flows

86% of MP's generation fleet, totaling 3,093 MWs, is coal-fired. Recently, certain members of the investment community have adopted investment policies promoting the divestment of coal-fired generation or otherwise limiting new investments in coal-fired generation. The impact of such efforts may adversely affect the demand for and price of our common stock and impact our and MP's access to the capital and financial markets. Further, certain insurance companies have established policies limiting coal-related underwriting and investment. Consequently, these policies aimed at coal-fired generation could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition, and cash flows.

Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition May be Adversely Affected by the Volatility in Pension and OPEB Expenses Due to Capital Market Performance and Other Changes

FirstEnergy recognizes in income the change in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains and losses for its pension and OPEB plans. This adjustment is recognized in the fourth quarter of each year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement, resulting in greater volatility in pension and OPEB expenses and may materially impact our results of operations.

Our financial statements reflect the values of the assets held in trust to satisfy our obligations under pension and OPEB plans. Certain of the assets held in these trusts do not have readily determinable market values. Changes in the estimates and assumptions inherent in the value of these assets could affect the value of the trusts. If the value of the assets held by the trusts declines by a material amount, our funding obligation to the trusts could materially increase. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to pay future pension and other obligations requires significant judgment and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. Capital market conditions that generate investment losses or that negatively impact the discount rate and increase the present value of liabilities may have significant impacts on the value of the pension and other trust funds, which could require significant additional funding and negatively impact our results of operations and financial position.

In the Event of Volatility or Unfavorable Conditions in the Capital and Credit Markets, Our Business, Including the Immediate Availability and Cost of Short-Term Funds for Liquidity Requirements, Our Ability to Meet Long-Term Commitments and the Competitiveness and Liquidity of Energy Markets May be Adversely Affected, Which Could Negatively Impact Our Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Financial Condition
We rely on the capital markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. We also use letters of credit provided by various financial institutions to support our hedging operations. We also deposit cash in short-term investments. In the event of volatility in the capital and credit markets, our ability to draw on our credit facilities and cash may be adversely affected. Our access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. Any delay in our ability to access those funds, even for a short period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Should there be fluctuations in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant foreign or domestic financial institutions or foreign governments, our access to liquidity needed for our business could be adversely affected. Unfavorable conditions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing hedging strategies to reduce collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash.
Energy markets depend heavily on active participation by multiple counterparties, which could be adversely affected should there be disruptions in the capital and credit markets. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those

20

markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.
Our Use of Non-Derivative and Derivative Contracts to Mitigate Risks Could Result in Financial Losses That May Negatively Impact Our Financial Results
We may use a variety of non-derivative and derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our financial market risks. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of these derivative instruments involves management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of these contracts. Also, we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts if a counterparty fails to perform or if there is limited liquidity of these contracts in the market.

The Anticipated Phasing Out of LIBOR after 2021 Could Adversely Affect our Financial Results
A portion of FirstEnergy’s indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on LIBOR. LIBOR tends to fluctuate based on general interest rates, rates set by the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks, the supply of and demand for credit in the London interbank market and general economic conditions. FirstEnergy has not hedged its interest rate exposure with respect to its floating rate debt. Accordingly, FirstEnergy’s interest expense for any particular period will fluctuate based on LIBOR and other variable interest rates. On July 27, 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (the authority that regulates LIBOR) announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. It is unclear whether new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021, and there is considerable uncertainty regarding the publication of LIBOR beyond 2021. The U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, is considering replacing U.S. dollar LIBOR with a newly created index (the secured overnight financing rate or SOFR), calculated based on repurchase agreements backed by treasury securities. It is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms or the establishment of alternative reference rates in the United Kingdom, the United States or elsewhere. To the extent these interest rates increase, interest expense will increase. If sources of capital for FirstEnergy are reduced, capital costs could increase materially. Restricted access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity.

We Must Rely on Cash from Our Subsidiaries and Any Restrictions on The Utilities and Transmission Companies’ Ability to Pay Dividends or Make Cash Payments to Us May Adversely Affect Our Cash Flows and Financial Condition

We are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets. Substantially all of our business is conducted by our subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow, including our ability to pay dividends and service debt, is dependent on the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and their ability to upstream cash to the holding company. Any inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make cash payments to us may adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition.

Additionally, the Utilities and Transmission Companies are regulated by various state utility and federal commissions that generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of utility customers are being met. Those state and federal commissions could attempt to impose restrictions on the ability of the Utilities and Transmission Companies to pay dividends or otherwise restrict cash payments to us.

We Cannot Assure Common Shareholders that Future Dividend Payments Will be Made, or if Made, in What Amounts They May be Paid

Our Board of Directors will continue to regularly evaluate our common stock dividend and determine whether to declare a dividend, and an appropriate amount thereof, each quarter taking into account such factors as, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash flows from subsidiaries, as well as general economic and competitive conditions. We cannot assure common shareholders that dividends will be paid in the future, or that, if paid, dividends will be at the same amount or with the same frequency as in the past.

Certain FirstEnergy Companies Have Guaranteed the Performance of Third Parties, Which May Result in Substantial Costs or the Incurrence of Additional Debt and Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Financial Condition

Certain FirstEnergy companies have issued guarantees of the performance of others, which obligates such FirstEnergy companies to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. For instance, FE is a guarantor under a syndicated senior secured term loan facility, under which Global Holding's outstanding principal balance is approximately $108 million at December 31, 2020. In the event of non-performance by the third parties, FirstEnergy could incur substantial cost to fulfill this obligation and other obligations under such guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results.

Additionally, with respect to FEV's investment in Global Holding, it could require additional capital from its owners, including FEV, to fund operations and meet its obligations under its term loan facility. These capital requirements could be significant and if other partners do not fund the additional capital, resulting in FEV increasing its equity ownership and obtaining the ability to direct the

21

significant activities of Global Holding, FEV may be required to consolidate Global Holding, increasing FirstEnergy's debt by $108 million.

The Tax Characterization of Our Distributions to Shareholders Will Fluctuate

When we make distributions to shareholders, we are required to subsequently determine and report the tax characterization of those distributions for purposes of shareholders’ income taxes. Whether a distribution is characterized as a dividend or a return of capital (and possible capital gain) depends upon an internal tax calculation to determine earnings and profits for income tax purposes (E&P). E&P should not be confused with earnings or net income under GAAP. Further, after we report the expected tax characterization of distributions we have paid, the actual characterization could vary from our expectation with the result that holders of our common stock could incur different income tax liabilities than expected.

In general, distributions are characterized as dividends to the extent the amount of such distributions do not exceed our calculation of current or accumulated E&P. Distributions in excess of current and accumulated E&P may be treated as a non-taxable return of capital. Generally, a non-taxable return of capital will reduce an investor’s basis in our stock for federal tax purposes, which will impact the calculation of gain or loss when the stock is sold.

Our internal calculation of E&P can be impacted by a variety of factors. FirstEnergy exhausted its accumulated E&P in the second half of the 2019 tax year. This elimination of accumulated E&P will make it more likely that at least a portion of our current or future distributions will be characterized for shareholders’ tax purposes as a return of capital. Upon such characterization, shareholders are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the income tax treatment of our distributions to them.

ITEM 1B.     UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

The first mortgage indentures for the Ohio Companies, Penn, MP, PE and WP constitute direct first liens on substantially all of the respective physical property, subject only to excepted encumbrances, as defined in the first mortgage indentures. See Note 11, "Capitalization," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information concerning financing encumbrances affecting certain of the Utilities’ properties.

FirstEnergy controls the following generation sources as of December 31, 2020, shown in the table below. Except for the OVEC participation referenced in the footnotes to the table, the Regulated Distribution segment generating units are owned by either JCP&L or MP.

---------------------------------- ---- ------------------------------ ---------- -- ---------------------- -----

Plant (Location) Unit Total Corp/Other Regulated Distribution
 Net Demonstrated Capacity (MW)
Super-critical Coal-fired:
Harrison (Haywood, WV) 1-3 1,984 — 1,984
Fort Martin (Maidsville, WV) 1-2 1,098 — 1,098
 3,082 — 3,082
Sub-critical and Other Coal-fired:
OVEC (Cheshire, OH) (Madison, IN) 1-11 78 (1) 67 11

Pumped-storage Hydro:
Bath County (Warm Springs, VA) 1-6 487 (2) — 487
Yards Creek (Blairstown Twp., NJ) 1-3 210 (3) — 210
 697 — 697
Total 3,857 67 3,790

(1)Represents AE Supply's 3.01% and MP's 0.49% entitlement based on their participation in OVEC.
(2)Represents AGC's 16.25% undivided interest in Bath County. The station is operated by VEPCO.
(3)Represents JCP&L’s 50% ownership interest, which is being sold pursuant to an asset purchase agreement dated April 6, 2020, with the sale anticipated being completed in the first quarter of 2021.

The above generating plants and load centers are connected by a transmission system with various voltage ratings ranging from 23 kV to 500 kV. FirstEnergy's overhead and underground transmission lines aggregate 24,035 circuit miles.

The Utilities’ electric distribution systems include 272,531 miles of overhead pole line and underground conduit carrying primary, secondary and street lighting circuits.

FirstEnergy owns substations with a total installed transformer capacity of 155,920,348 kV-amperes.

All of FirstEnergy's transmission, distribution and generation assets operate in PJM.

22

FirstEnergy’s distribution and transmission systems as of December 31, 2020, consist of the following:

------- -------------------- -------------------- ------ -------------------------------- -----------
 DistributionLines(1) TransmissionLines(1) SubstationTransformerCapacity(2)
 kV Amperes
OE 67,852 — 7,202,811
Penn 13,644 — 915,584
CEI 33,073 — 9,219,531
TE 19,141 — 2,723,706
JCP&L 23,750 2,595 21,326,473
ME 19,014 — 4,765,730
PN 27,716 — 6,694,735
ATSI(3) — 7,894 38,131,082
WP 25,114 4,322 14,298,948
MP 22,616 2,611 13,213,643
PE 20,611 2,086 10,537,204
TrAIL — 262 13,835,000
MAIT — 4,265 13,055,901
Total 272,531 24,035 155,920,348

(1)Circuit Miles
(2)Top rating of in-service power transformers only. Excludes grounding banks, station power transformers, and generator and customer-owned transformers.
(3)Represents transmission line assets of 69 kV and greater located in the service territories of the Ohio Companies and Penn.

ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Reference is made to Note 14, "Regulatory Matters," and Note 15, "Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of certain legal proceedings involving FirstEnergy.

ITEM 4.     MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

COMMON STOCK

The common stock of FirstEnergy Corp. is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “FE” and is traded on other registered exchanges.

HOLDERS OF COMMON STOCK

There were 67,527 holders of 543,117,533 shares of FE’s common stock as of December 31, 2020, and 67,252 holders of 543,215,090 shares of FE's common stock as of January 31, 2021. We have historically paid quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. Dividend payments are subject to declaration by the Board and future dividend decisions determined by the Board may be impacted by earnings growth, cash flows, credit metrics and other business conditions. Information regarding retained earnings available for payment of cash dividends is given in Note 11, "Capitalization," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

23

SHAREHOLDER RETURN

The following graph shows the total cumulative return from a $100 investment on December 31, 2015, in FE’s common stock compared with the total cumulative returns of EEI’s Index of Investor-Owned Electric Utility Companies and the S&P 500.

FirstEnergy had no transactions regarding purchases of FE common stock during the fourth quarter of 2020.

FirstEnergy does not have any publicly announced plan or program for share purchases.

ITEM 6.     [RESERVED]

24

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Forward-Looking Statements: This Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents, beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms “anticipate,” “potential,” “expect,” "forecast," "target," "will," "intend," “believe,” "project," “estimate," "plan" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, which may include the following (see Glossary of Terms for definitions of capitalized terms):

•The results of the ongoing internal investigation matters and evaluation of our controls framework and remediation of our material weakness in internal control over financial reporting.
•The risks and uncertainties associated with government investigations regarding HB 6 and related matters including potential adverse impacts on federal or state regulatory matters including, but not limited to, matters relating to rates.
•The risks and uncertainties associated with litigation, arbitration, mediation and similar proceedings.
•Legislative and regulatory developments, including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, compliance and enforcement activity.
•The ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic and financial goals, including, but not limited to, maintaining financial flexibility, overcoming current uncertainties and challenges associated with the ongoing governmental investigations, executing our transmission and distribution investment plans, controlling costs, improving our credit metrics, strengthening our balance sheet and growing earnings.
•Economic and weather conditions affecting future operating results, such as a recession, significant weather events and other natural disasters, and associated regulatory events or actions in response to such conditions.
•Mitigating exposure for remedial activities associated with retired and formerly owned electric generation assets.
•The extent and duration of COVID-19 and the impacts to our business, operations and financial condition resulting from the outbreak of COVID-19 including, but not limited to, disruption of businesses in our territories, volatile capital and credit markets, legislative and regulatory actions, the effectiveness of our pandemic and business continuity plans, the precautionary measures we are taking on behalf of our customers, contractors and employees, our customers’ ability to make their utility payment and the potential for supply-chain disruptions.
•The potential of non-compliance with debt covenants in our credit facilities due to matters associated with the government investigations regarding HB 6 and related matters.
•The ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with our financial plans, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting us, including the increasing number of financial institutions evaluating the impact of climate change on their investment decisions.
•Actions that may be taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect either our access to or terms of financing or our financial condition and liquidity.
•Changes in assumptions regarding economic conditions within our territories, the reliability of our transmission and distribution system, or the availability of capital or other resources supporting identified transmission and distribution investment opportunities.
•Changes in customers’ demand for power, including, but not limited to, the impact of climate change or energy efficiency and peak demand reduction mandates.
•Changes in national and regional economic conditions affecting us and/or our major industrial and commercial customers or others with which we do business.
•The risks associated with cyber-attacks and other disruptions to our information technology system, which may compromise our operations, and data security breaches of sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary or personally identifiable information.
•The ability to comply with applicable reliability standards and energy efficiency and peak demand reduction mandates.
•Changes to environmental laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, those related to climate change.
•Changing market conditions affecting the measurement of certain liabilities and the value of assets held in our pension trusts and other trust funds, or causing us to make contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger, than currently anticipated.
•Labor disruptions by our unionized workforce.
•Changes to significant accounting policies.
•Any changes in tax laws or regulations, or adverse tax audit results or rulings.
•The risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our SEC filings.

Dividends declared from time to time on our common stock during any period may in the aggregate vary from prior periods due to circumstances considered by our Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

25

These forward-looking statements are also qualified by, and should be read together with, the risk factors included in (a) Item 1A. Risk Factors, (b) Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and (c) other factors discussed herein and in FirstEnergy's other filings with the SEC. The foregoing review of factors also should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise, except as required by law, any forward-looking statements contained herein or in the information incorporated by reference as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

26

FIRSTENERGY CORP.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FIRSTENERGY’S BUSINESS

FE and its subsidiaries are principally involved in the transmission, distribution and generation of electricity through its reportable segments, Regulated Distribution and Regulated Transmission.

The Regulated Distribution segment distributes electricity through FirstEnergy’s ten utility operating companies, serving approximately six million customers within 65,000 square miles of Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Maryland, New Jersey and New York, and purchases power for its POLR, SOS, SSO and default service requirements in Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland. This segment also controls 3,790 MWs of regulated electric generation capacity located primarily in West Virginia, Virginia and New Jersey, of which, 210 MWs are related to the Yards Creek generating station that is being sold pursuant to an asset purchase agreement as further discussed below. The segment's results reflect the costs of securing and delivering electric generation from transmission facilities to customers, including the deferral and amortization of certain related costs.

The service areas of, and customers served by, FirstEnergy's regulated distribution utilities as of December 31, 2020, are summarized below:

------- -------------------------------------------------- ----------------
Company Area Served Customers Served
 (In thousands)
OE Central and Northeastern Ohio 1,060
Penn Western Pennsylvania 169
CEI Northeastern Ohio 755
TE Northwestern Ohio 314
JCP&L Northern, Western and East Central New Jersey 1,147
ME Eastern Pennsylvania 580
PN Western Pennsylvania and Western New York 588
WP Southwest, South Central and Northern Pennsylvania 734
MP Northern, Central and Southeastern West Virginia 395
PE Western Maryland and Eastern West Virginia 426
 6,168

The Regulated Transmission segment provides transmission infrastructure owned and operated by the Transmission Companies and certain of FirstEnergy's utilities (JCP&L, MP, PE and WP) to transmit electricity from generation sources to distribution facilities. The segment's revenues are primarily derived from forward-looking formula rates at the Transmission Companies as well as stated transmission rates at MP, PE and WP; although as explained in Note 14, "Regulatory Matters", effective January 1, 2021, subject to refund, MP's, PE's and WP's existing stated rates became forward-looking formula rates. JCP&L previously had stated transmission rates, however, effective January 1, 2020, JCP&L implemented forward-looking formula rates, subject to refund, pending further hearing and settlement proceedings. Both forward-looking formula and stated rates recover costs that FERC determines are permitted to be recovered and provide a return on transmission capital investment. Under forward-looking formula rates, the revenue requirement is updated annually based on a projected rate base and projected costs, which is subject to an annual true-up based on actual costs. Revenue requirements under stated rates are calculated annually by multiplying the highest one-hour peak load in each respective transmission zone by the approved, stated rate in that zone. The segment's results also reflect the net transmission expenses related to the delivery of electricity on FirstEnergy's transmission facilities.

Corporate/Other reflects corporate support costs not charged to FE's subsidiaries, including FE’s retained Pension and OPEB assets and liabilities of the FES Debtors, interest expense on FE’s holding company debt and other businesses that do not constitute an operating segment. Additionally, reconciling adjustments for the elimination of inter-segment transactions and discontinued operations are included in Corporate/Other. As of December 31, 2020, 67 MWs of electric generating capacity, representing AE Supply's OVEC capacity entitlement, was included in continuing operations of Corporate/Other. As of December 31, 2020, Corporate/Other had approximately $8.2 billion of FE holding company debt.

27

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

FirstEnergy is a forward-thinking fully regulated electric utility focused on stable and predictable earnings and cash flow from its regulated business units - Regulated Distribution and Regulated Transmission - through delivering enhanced customer service and reliability that supports FE's dividend.

On July 21, 2020, a complaint and supporting affidavit containing federal criminal allegations were unsealed against the now former Ohio House Speaker Larry Householder and other individuals and entities allegedly affiliated with Mr. Householder. Also, on July 21, 2020, and in connection with the investigation, FirstEnergy received subpoenas for records from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the S.D. Ohio. FirstEnergy was not aware of the criminal allegations, affidavit or subpoenas before July 21, 2020. In addition to the subpoenas referenced above, the OAG, certain FE shareholders and FirstEnergy customers filed several lawsuits against FirstEnergy and certain current and former directors, officers and other employees, each relating to the allegations against the now former Ohio House Speaker Larry Householder and other individuals and entities allegedly affiliated with Mr. Householder. In addition, on August 10, 2020, the SEC, through its Division of Enforcement, issued an order directing an investigation of possible securities laws violations by FE, and on September 1, 2020, issued subpoenas to FE and certain FE officers.

As previously disclosed, a committee of independent members of the Board of Directors is directing an internal investigation related to ongoing government investigations. In connection with FirstEnergy’s internal investigation, such committee determined on October 29, 2020, to terminate FirstEnergy’s Chief Executive Officer, Charles E. Jones, together with two other executives: Dennis M. Chack, Senior Vice President of Product Development, Marketing, and Branding; and Michael J. Dowling, Senior Vice President of External Affairs. Each of these terminated executives violated certain FirstEnergy policies and its code of conduct. These executives were terminated as of October 29, 2020. Such former members of senior management did not maintain and promote a control environment with an appropriate tone of compliance in certain areas of FirstEnergy’s business, nor sufficiently promote, monitor or enforce adherence to certain FirstEnergy policies and its code of conduct. Furthermore, certain former members of senior management did not reasonably ensure that relevant information was communicated within our organization and not withheld from our independent directors, our Audit Committee, and our independent auditor. Among the matters considered with respect to the determination by the committee of independent members of the Board of Directors that certain former members of senior management violated certain FirstEnergy policies and its code of conduct related to a payment of approximately $4 million made in early 2019 in connection with the termination of a purported consulting agreement, as amended, which had been in place since 2013. The counterparty to such agreement was an entity associated with an individual who subsequently was appointed to a full-time role as an Ohio government official directly involved in regulating the Ohio Companies, including with respect to distribution rates. FirstEnergy believes that payments under the consulting agreement may have been for purposes other than those represented within the consulting agreement. Immediately following these terminations, the independent members of its Board appointed Mr. Steven E. Strah to the position of Acting Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Christopher D. Pappas, a current member of the Board, to the temporary position of Executive Director, each effective as of October 29, 2020. Mr. Donald T. Misheff will continue to serve as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board. Additionally, on November 8, 2020, Robert P. Reffner, Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, and Ebony L. Yeboah-Amankwah, Vice President, General Counsel, and Chief Ethics Officer, were separated from FirstEnergy due to inaction and conduct that the Board determined was influenced by the improper tone at the top. The matter is a subject of the ongoing internal investigation as it relates to the government investigations.

Also, in connection with the internal investigation, FirstEnergy recently identified certain transactions, which, in some instances, extended back ten years or more, including vendor services, that were either improperly classified, misallocated to certain of the Utilities and Transmission Companies, or lacked proper supporting documentation. These transactions resulted in amounts collected from customers that were immaterial to FirstEnergy, and the Utilities and Transmission Companies will be working with the appropriate regulatory agencies to address these amounts.

On January 31, 2021, FirstEnergy reached a partial settlement with the OAG and other parties regarding decoupling, which resulted in the Ohio Companies requesting PUCO approval to set the respective decoupling riders (Rider CSR) to zero effective February 9, 2021. While the partial settlement with the OAG focused specifically on decoupling, the Ohio Companies will of their own accord not seek to recover lost distribution revenue from residential and commercial customers. FirstEnergy is committed to pursuing an open dialogue in an appropriate manner with respect to a number of regulatory proceedings currently underway, including several audits, and multi-year SEET and ESP quadrennial review, among other matters. FirstEnergy believes a holistic, transparent discussion with the PUCO staff, and interested stakeholders in the regulatory process, is an important step towards removing uncertainties about regulatory concerns in Ohio and critical to re-establishing trust in FirstEnergy and restoring its reputation.

The Board has formed a new sub-committee of our Audit committee to, together with the Board, assess FirstEnergy’s compliance program and implement potential changes, as appropriate. In addition, in his role of Executive Director, Mr. Pappas assisted the FirstEnergy leadership team with execution of strategic initiatives, engage with FirstEnergy’s external stakeholders, and support the development of enhanced controls and governance policies and procedures. Additionally, on February 17, 2021, the Board appointed Mr. John Somerhalder to the positions of Vice Chairperson of the Board and Executive Director, each effective as of March 1, 2021, increasing the size of the Board from 10 to 11 members. Mr. Somerhalder has been elected to serve for a term expiring at the Company's 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and until his successor shall have been

28

elected. Mr. Donald T. Misheff will continue to serve as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board. Mr. Pappas, who was named to the temporary role of Executive Director in October 2020, will continue to serve on the Board of the Company as an independent director. Mr. Somerhalder will help lead efforts to enhance the company's reputation.

Despite the many disruptions FirstEnergy is currently facing, the leadership team remains committed and focused on executing its strategy and running the business. See “Outlook - Other Legal Proceedings” below for additional details on the government investigation and subsequent litigation surrounding the investigation of HB 6. See also “Outlook - State Regulation - Ohio” below for details on the PUCO proceeding reviewing political and charitable spending and legislative activity in response to the investigation of HB 6. The outcome of the government investigations, PUCO proceedings, legislative activity, and any of these lawsuits is uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on FE’s or its subsidiaries’ financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. FirstEnergy is considering reductions to its Regulated Distribution and Regulated Transmission capital investment plans and reductions to operating expenses, as well as changes to its planned equity issuances, to allow for flexibility should a fine or other regulatory actions be imposed as a result of the government investigations.

FirstEnergy is also working to improve how it conducts business and serve its customers. To address opportunities for improvement, FirstEnergy kicked off a new initiative to make process and cultural improvements across our entire organization that will keep FirstEnergy moving forward in a positive direction. Called "FE Forward," the initiative will play a critical first step in our transformation journey as it looks to align business practices with our values and behaviors. FirstEnergy will do this by reviewing policies and practices as well as the structure and processes around how decisions are made. FirstEnergy expects that this project will not only help FirstEnergy overcome current uncertainties and challenges, but it will further our goal of creating a truly sustainable company and provide opportunities to reinvest in our employees and customers. The initial phase of FE Forward, which is expected to go through the first quarter of 2021, will involve a comprehensive assessment that will pinpoint the areas of opportunity across all business units and outline the project's scope.

The outbreak of COVID-19 is a global pandemic. FirstEnergy is taking steps to mitigate known risks and is continuously evaluating the rapidly evolving situation based on guidance from governmental officials and public health experts. The full impact on FirstEnergy’s business from the COVID-19 pandemic, including the governmental and regulatory responses, is unknown at this time and difficult to predict. FirstEnergy provides a critical and essential service to its customers and the health and safety of FirstEnergy’s employees, contractors and customers are its first priority. FirstEnergy is effectively managing its operations, while still providing flexibility for approximately 7,000 of its 12,000 employees to work from home.

Beginning March 13, 2020, FirstEnergy temporarily suspended customer disconnections for nonpayment and ceased collection activities as a result of the ongoing pandemic. Starting September 15, 2020, certain FirstEnergy utilities began non-residential disconnections for non-payment, and began the same on October 5, 2020 for residential disconnections. FirstEnergy is actively monitoring the impact COVID-19 is having on customers’ receivable balances, which include increasing arrears balance since the pandemic has begun. Additionally, FirstEnergy has incurred, and it is expected to incur for the foreseeable future, incremental uncollectible and other COVID-19 related expenses. Such incrementally incurred COVID-19 pandemic related expenses consist of additional costs that FirstEnergy is incurring to protect its employees, contractors and customers, and to support social distancing requirements. These costs include, but are not limited to, new or added benefits provided to employees, the purchase of additional personal protection equipment and disinfecting supplies, additional facility cleaning services, initiated programs and communications to customers on utility response, and increased technology expenses to support remote working, where possible. The Ohio Companies and JCP&L had existing regulatory mechanisms in place prior to the outbreak of COVID-19, where incremental uncollectible expenses are able to be recovered through riders with no material impact to earnings. Additionally, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the MDPSC, NJBPU and WVPSC issued orders allowing PE, JCP&L and MP to track and create a regulatory asset for future recovery of incremental costs, including uncollectible expenses, incurred as a result of the pandemic. In Pennsylvania, the PPUC authorized utilities to track all prudently incurred incremental costs arising from COVID-19, and to create a regulatory asset for future recovery of incremental uncollectible expense incurred as a result of COVID-19 above what is included in the Pennsylvania Companies’ existing rates.

FirstEnergy is continuously monitoring its supply chain and is working closely with essential vendors to understand the continued impact of COVID-19 to its business and does not currently expect disruptions in its ability to deliver service to customers or any material impact to its capital spending plan. FirstEnergy’s Distribution and Transmission revenues benefit from geographic and economic diversity across a five-state service territory. Two-thirds of base distribution revenues come from the residential customer class. FirstEnergy’s commercial and industrial revenues are primarily fixed and demand-based, rather than volume-based. As a result of this, FirstEnergy’s Distribution and Transmission investments provide stable and predictable earnings. However, due to the actions taken by state governments in our service territories limiting certain commercial and industrial activities, FirstEnergy’s residential load has increased, while commercial and industrial loads have declined; however, the magnitude of future load trends are currently unknown and difficult to predict. FirstEnergy believes it is well positioned to manage the economic slowdown resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the situation remains fluid and future impacts to FirstEnergy, that are presently unknown or unanticipated, may occur.

FE and the Utilities and FET and certain of its subsidiaries participate in two separate five-year syndicated revolving credit facilities providing for aggregate commitments of $3.5 billion, which are available until December 6, 2022. Under the FE credit facility, an aggregate amount of $2.5 billion is available to be borrowed, repaid and reborrowed, subject to separate borrowing sublimits for each borrower including FE and its regulated distribution subsidiaries. Under the FET credit facility, an aggregate

29

amount of $1.0 billion is available to be borrowed, repaid and reborrowed under a syndicated credit facility, subject to separate borrowing sublimits for each borrower including FE's transmission subsidiaries. On November 17, 2020, FE and the Utilities and FET and certain of its subsidiaries entered into amendments to the FE credit facility and the FET credit facility, respectively. The amendments provide for modifications and/or waivers of: (i) certain representations and warranties, and (ii) certain affirmative and negative covenants, contained therein, which allowed FirstEnergy to regain compliance with such provisions. In addition, among other things, the amendment to the FE credit facility reduces the sublimit applicable to FE to $1.5 billion, and the amendments increased certain tiers of pricing applicable to borrowings under the credit facilities.

On November 23, 2020, FE and its regulated distribution subsidiaries, JCP&L, ME, Penn, TE and WP, borrowed $950 million in the aggregate under the FE Revolving Facility, bringing the outstanding principal balance under the FE Revolving Facility to $1.2 billion, with $1.3 billion of remaining availability under the FE Revolving Facility. On November 23, 2020, FET and its regulated transmission subsidiary, ATSI, borrowed $1 billion in the aggregate under the FET Revolving Facility, bringing the outstanding principal balance under the FET Revolving Facility to $1 billion, with no remaining availability under the FET Revolving Facility. FE, FET and certain of their respective subsidiaries increased their borrowings under the Revolving Facilities as a proactive measure to increase their respective cash positions and preserve financial flexibility.

In 2020, FirstEnergy continues to execute its regulated growth plans, through the following achievements and plans:

•Implemented forward-looking rates, subject to refund, at JCP&L effective January 1, 2020,
•In October 2020, the NJBPU approved JCP&L’s distribution base rate case settlement agreement, resulting in, among other things, a $94 million increase in annual base distribution revenues,
•Filed for rider recovery of smart meters in NJ, to be deployed beginning in 2023 with a total program cost estimated at $732 million,
•PAPUC-approved DSIC waiver for Penn, which increased the cap from 5% to 7.5% on March 12, 2020,
•Completed final step of FirstEnergy’s strategy to exit the competitive generation business with FES Debtors’ emergence from bankruptcy on February 27, 2020,
•Integrated resource plan filing in West Virginia made on December 30, 2020,
•Issued Climate Position and Strategy Statement, including a pledge to be carbon neutral by 2050, and
•FERC approval that converted the existing stated transmission rates of MP, PE and WP to a forward-looking formula transmission rate, effective January 1, 2021.

With an operating territory of 65,000 square miles, the scale and diversity of the ten Utilities that comprise the Regulated Distribution business uniquely position this business for growth through opportunities for additional investment. Over the past several years, Regulated Distribution has experienced rate base growth through investments that have improved reliability and added operating flexibility to the distribution infrastructure, which provide benefits to the customers and communities those Utilities serve. Additionally, this business is exploring other opportunities for growth, including investments in electric system improvement and modernization projects to increase reliability and improve service to customers, as well as exploring opportunities in customer engagement that focus on the electrification of customers’ homes and businesses by providing a full range of products and services.

With approximately 24,500 miles of transmission lines in operation, the Regulated Transmission business is the centerpiece of FirstEnergy’s regulated investment strategy with, 100% of its capital investments recovered under forward-looking formula rates at the Transmission Companies effective January 1, 2021. Regulated Transmission has also experienced significant growth as part of its Energizing the Future transmission plan with plans to invest up to $7 billion in capital from 2018 to 2023.

FirstEnergy believes there are incremental investment opportunities for its existing transmission infrastructure of over $20 billion beyond those identified through 2023, which are expected to strengthen grid and cyber-security and make the transmission system more reliable, robust, secure and resistant to extreme weather events, with improved operational flexibility.

While FirstEnergy continues to have customer-focused investment opportunities across its distribution and transmission businesses of up to $3 billion annually, it has discontinued providing a long-term compound annual growth rate until there is further clarity regarding Ohio regulatory matters and the ongoing government investigations.

In November 2018, the Board of Directors approved a dividend policy that includes a targeted payout ratio. Dividend payments are subject to declaration by the Board and future dividend decisions determined by the Board may be impacted by earnings, cash flows, credit metrics and other business conditions, including the risk and uncertainties of the government investigations.

In November 2020, FirstEnergy published its Climate Story which includes our climate position and strategy, as well as a new comprehensive and ambitious greenhouse gas emission goal. FirstEnergy pledged to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and set an interim goal for a 30% reduction in greenhouse gases within the company’s direct operational control by 2030, based on 2019 levels. In addition, FirstEnergy has also set a fleet electrification goal in which beginning in 2021, FirstEnergy plans for 100% of new purchases for our light duty and aerial truck fleet to be electric or hybrid vehicles, creating a path to 30% fleet electrification by 2030. Also, in 2021, FirstEnergy will seek approval to construct a solar generation source of at least 50 MWs in West Virginia. Future resource plans to achieve carbon reductions, including any determination of retirement dates of our regulated coal-fired generating facilities, will be developed by working collaboratively with regulators in West Virginia. Determination of the useful life

30

of our regulated coal-fired generating facilities could result in changes in depreciation, and/or continued collection of net plant in rates after retirement, securitization, sale, impairment or regulatory disallowances. If MP is unable to recover these costs, it could have a material adverse effect on FE and/or MP’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow.

In January 2021, our updated Strategic Plan – Powered by our Core Values & Behaviors was published. This comprehensive update provides a vision of our company’s path forward in an evolving electric industry. It also articulates significant new goals that will help us achieve our long-term strategic commitments in a transparent, sustainable and responsible manner.

The $2.5 billion equity issuance in 2018 strengthened FirstEnergy’s balance sheet and supported the company’s transition to a fully regulated utility company. The shares of preferred stock participated in the dividend paid on common stock on an as-converted basis and were non-voting except in certain limited circumstances. Because of this equity issuance, FirstEnergy does not currently anticipate the need to issue additional equity through 2021 and expects to issue, subject to, among other things, market conditions, pricing terms and business operations, up to $600 million of equity annually in 2022 and 2023, including approximately $100 million in equity for its regular stock investment and employee benefit plans. FirstEnergy's expectations regarding the amount and timing of any potential equity issuances are subject to, among other matters, the ongoing government investigations and related lawsuits.

On March 31, 2018, the FES Debtors announced that, in order to facilitate an orderly financial restructuring, they filed voluntary petitions under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code with the Bankruptcy Court. In September 2018, the Bankruptcy Court approved a FES Bankruptcy settlement agreement by and among FirstEnergy, two groups of key FES creditors (collectively, the FES Key Creditor Groups), the FES Debtors and the UCC. The FES Bankruptcy settlement agreement resolved certain claims by FirstEnergy against the FES Debtors, all claims by the FES Debtors and the FES Key Creditor Groups against FirstEnergy, as well as releases from third parties who voted in favor of the FES Debtors' plan of reorganization, in return for among other things, a cash payment of $853 million upon emergence. The FES Bankruptcy settlement was conditioned on the FES Debtors confirming and effectuating a plan of reorganization acceptable to FirstEnergy.

On February 18, 2020, the FES Debtors and FirstEnergy entered into an IT Access Agreement that provided IT support to enable the FES Debtors to emerge from bankruptcy prior to full IT separation by the FES Debtors. As part of the IT Access Agreement, the FES Debtors and FirstEnergy resolved, among other things, the on-going reconciliation of outstanding tax sharing payments for tax years 2018, 2019 and 2020 for a total of $125 million. On February 25, 2020, the Bankruptcy Court approved the IT Access Agreement. On February 27, 2020, the FES Debtors effectuated their plan, emerged from bankruptcy and FirstEnergy tendered the settlement payments totaling $853 million and the $125 million tax sharing payment to the FES Debtors, with no material impact to net income in 2020.

As contemplated under the FES Bankruptcy settlement agreement, AE Supply entered into an agreement on December 31, 2018, to transfer the 1,300 MW Pleasants Power Station and related assets to FG, while retaining certain specified liabilities. Under the terms of the agreement, FG acquired the economic interests in Pleasants as of January 1, 2019, and AE Supply operated Pleasants until ownership was transferred on January 30, 2020. AE Supply will continue to provide access to the McElroy's Run CCR impoundment facility, which was not transferred, and FE will provide guarantees for certain retained environmental liabilities of AE Supply, including the McElroy’s Run CCR impoundment facility.

As of June 30, 2020, FirstEnergy had substantially ceased providing post-emergence services to FES Debtors under the terms of the amended and restated shared services agreement. In connection with the FES Debtors emergence from bankruptcy, FirstEnergy entered into an amended separation agreement with the FES Debtors to implement the separation of FES Debtors and their businesses from FirstEnergy.

The emergence of the FES Debtors from bankruptcy represents the final step in FirstEnergy’s previously announced strategy to exit the competitive generation business and become a fully regulated utility company with a stronger balance sheet, solid cash flows and more predictable earnings.

The Form 10-K discusses 2020 and 2019 items and year-over-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019. Discussions of 2018 items and year-over-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 10, 2020.

31

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The financial results discussed below include revenues and expenses from transactions among FirstEnergy’s business segments. A reconciliation of segment financial results is provided in Note 17, "Segment Information," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Net income by business segment was as follows:

--------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ------------------- ----- ---- ----- ------------ ------------ ----- ------ ----- - ------
(In millions, except per share amounts) For the Years Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018
Net Income By Business Segment:
Regulated Distribution $ 959 $ 1,076 $ 1,242 $ (117) $ (166)
Regulated Transmission 464 447 397 17 50

Corporate/Other (420) (619) (617) 199 (2)
Income from Continuing Operations $ 1,003 $ 904 $ 1,022 $ 99 $ (118)

Discontinued Operations 76 8 326 68 (318)
Net Income $ 1,079 $ 912 $ 1,348 $ 167 $ (436)

Earnings per share of common stock
Basic - Continuing Operations $ 1.85 $ 1.69 $ 1.33 $ 0.16 $ 0.36
Basic - Discontinued Operations 0.14 0.01 0.66 0.13 (0.65)
Basic - Net Income Attributable to $ 1.99 $ 1.70 $ 1.99 $ 0.29 $ (0.29)
Common Stockholders

Earnings per share of common stock
Diluted - Continuing Operations $ 1.85 $ 1.67 $ 1.33 $ 0.18 $ 0.34
Diluted - Discontinued Operations 0.14 0.01 0.66 0.13 (0.65)
Diluted - Net Income Attributable to $ 1.99 $ 1.68 $ 1.99 $ 0.31 $ (0.31)
Common Stockholders

32

Summary of Results of Operations — 2020 Compared with 2019

Financial results for FirstEnergy’s business segments for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, were as follows:

------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---------------------- ----- - ----- ------------------------------------------- ----- ------------------------ ----- ------- - ------
2020 Financial Results Regulated Distribution Regulated Transmission Corporate/Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated
 (In millions)
Revenues:

Electric $ 9,130 $ 1,613 $ (139) $ 10,604
Other 233 17 (64) 186

Total Revenues 9,363 1,630 (203) 10,790

Operating Expenses:
Fuel 369 — — 369
Purchased power 2,687 — 14 2,701
Other operating expenses 3,178 282 (169) 3,291

Provision for depreciation 896 313 65 1,274

Amortization (deferral) of regulatory assets, net (64) 11 — (53)
General taxes 770 232 44 1,046

Total Operating Expenses 7,836 838 (46) 8,628

Operating Income (Loss) 1,527 792 (157) 2,162

Other Income (Expense):

Miscellaneous income, net 332 30 70 432

Pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment (323) (40) (114) (477)
Interest expense (501) (219) (345) (1,065)
Capitalized financing costs 37 39 1 77
Total Other Expense (455) (190) (388) (1,033)

Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes (Benefits) 1,072 602 (545) 1,129
Income taxes (benefits) 113 138 (125) 126
Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations 959 464 (420) 1,003
Discontinued Operations, net of tax — — 76 76
Net Income (Loss) $ 959 $ 464 $ (344) $ 1,079

33

------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---------------------- ----- - ----- ------------------------------------------- ----- ------------------------ ----- ------- - ------
2019 Financial Results Regulated Distribution Regulated Transmission Corporate/Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated
 (In millions)
Revenues:

Electric $ 9,452 $ 1,510 $ (128) $ 10,834
Other 246 16 (61) 201

Total Revenues 9,698 1,526 (189) 11,035

Operating Expenses:
Fuel 497 — — 497
Purchased power 2,910 — 17 2,927
Other operating expenses 2,836 272 (156) 2,952

Provision for depreciation 863 284 73 1,220

Amortization (deferral) of regulatory assets, net (89) 10 — (79)
General taxes 760 209 39 1,008

Total Operating Expenses 7,777 775 (27) 8,525

Operating Income (Loss) 1,921 751 (162) 2,510

Other Income (Expense):

Miscellaneous income, net 174 15 54 243

Pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment (290) (47) (337) (674)
Interest expense (495) (192) (346) (1,033)
Capitalized financing costs 37 33 1 71
Total Other Expense (574) (191) (628) (1,393)

Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes (Benefits) 1,347 560 (790) 1,117
Income taxes (benefits) 271 113 (171) 213
Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations 1,076 447 (619) 904
Discontinued Operations, net of tax — — 8 8
Net Income (Loss) $ 1,076 $ 447 $ (611) $ 912

34

------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ----- ---------------------- ---- - --- ------------------------------------------- ---- ------------------------ ---- ----- - -----
Changes Between 2020 and 2019 Financial ResultsIncrease (Decrease) Regulated Distribution Regulated Transmission Corporate/Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated
 (In millions)
Revenues:

Electric $ (322) $ 103 $ (11) $ (230)
Other (13) 1 (3) (15)

Total Revenues (335) 104 (14) (245)

Operating Expenses:
Fuel (128) — — (128)
Purchased power (223) — (3) (226)
Other operating expenses 342 10 (13) 339

Provision for depreciation 33 29 (8) 54

Amortization (deferral) of regulatory assets, net 25 1 — 26
General taxes 10 23 5 38

Total Operating Expenses 59 63 (19) 103

Operating Income (Loss) (394) 41 5 (348)

Other Income (Expense):

Miscellaneous income, net 158 15 16 189

Pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment (33) 7 223 197
Interest expense (6) (27) 1 (32)
Capitalized financing costs — 6 — 6
Total Other Expense 119 1 240 360

Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes (Benefits) (275) 42 245 12
Income taxes (benefits) (158) 25 46 (87)
Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations (117) 17 199 99
Discontinued Operations, net of tax — — 68 68
Net Income (Loss) $ (117) $ 17 $ 267 $ 167

35

Regulated Distribution — 2020 Compared with 2019

Regulated Distribution's net income decreased $117 million in 2020, as compared to 2019, primarily resulting from the charge associated with the impairment of an Ohio regulatory asset in 2020, as further discussed below, higher pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustments, lower weather-related customer usage, the absence of the DMR revenues that ended in July 2019, and higher operating and maintenance expenses including the impact of non-deferred COVID-19 costs, partially offset by lower pension and OPEB non-service costs, higher revenues from incremental riders in Ohio and Pennsylvania and increased weather-adjusted residential sales due to the impact of COVID-19.

Revenues —

The $335 million decrease in total revenues resulted from the following sources:

--------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ---- ----- -------- ----- ----- - -----
 For the Years Ended December 31,
Revenues by Type of Service 2020 2019 Decrease
 (In millions)
Distribution services (1) $ 5,302 $ 5,314 $ (12)

Generation sales:
Retail 3,577 3,727 (150)
Wholesale 251 411 (160)
Total generation sales 3,828 4,138 (310)

Other 233 246 (13)
Total Revenues $ 9,363 $ 9,698 $ (335)

(1) Includes $43 million and $181 million of ARP revenues for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

Distribution services revenues decreased $12 million in 2020, as compared to 2019, primarily resulting from the charge associated with the impairment of an Ohio regulatory asset in 2020, as further discussed below, the absence of the New Jersey storm recovery rider and DMR revenues that ended in July 2019, lower weather-related customer usage, the expiration of a NUG contract and lower commercial and industrial sales due to the impact of COVID-19, partially offset by higher rates associated with incremental riders in Ohio and Pennsylvania, including the recovery of distribution capital investment programs and transmission expenses, increased weather-adjusted residential sales due to the impact of COVID-19 and the implementation of the New Jersey Zero Emission Program in June 2019. Distribution services by customer class are summarized in the following table:

------------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ---- ------- ------------------- ----- -
 For the Years Ended December 31,
Electric Distribution MWH Deliveries 2020 2019 Increase (Decrease)
 (In thousands)
Residential 54,978 54,159 1.5 %
Commercial(1) 34,811 37,888 (8.1) %
Industrial 52,034 55,649 (6.5) %

Total Electric Distribution MWH Deliveries 141,823 147,696 (4.0) %

 (1) Includes street lighting.

Distribution services to residential customers primarily reflects an increase in weather-adjusted load due to the impact of COVID-19, partially offset by lower weather-related usage. Deliveries to commercial customers reflects lower weather-related usage and the impact of COVID-19. Heating degree days were 6% below 2019 and 10% below normal. Cooling degree days were 1% below 2019, and 14% above normal. Deliveries to industrial customers were also negatively impacted due to the impact of COVID-19, contributing to lower steel, mining, and educational services customer usage, partially offset by higher shale customer usage.

36

The following table summarizes the price and volume factors contributing to the $310 million decrease in generation revenues in 2020, as compared to 2019:

--------------------------------------- ------------- -----
Source of Change in Generation Revenues (Decrease)
 (In millions)
Retail:
Change in sales volumes $ (54)
Change in prices (96)
 (150)
Wholesale:
Change in sales volumes (94)
Change in prices (3)
Capacity revenue (63)
 (160)
Change in Generation Revenues $ (310)

Retail generation revenues decreased $150 million, primarily due to lower weather-related usage, partially offset by an increase in weather-adjusted residential load due to the impact of COVID-19 and decreased customer shopping in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. Total generation provided by alternative suppliers as a percentage of total MHW deliveries decreased to 64% from 66% in Pennsylvania and to 47% from 48% in New Jersey. The decrease in retail generation prices primarily resulted from lower non-shopping generation auction rates in New Jersey and Pennsylvania.

Wholesale generation revenues decreased $160 million, primarily due to decreased volumes associated with lower economic dispatch of MP’s generating units, resulting from low spot market energy prices and an increase in the number of planned outages as compared to 2019, the expiration of a NUG contract and lower capacity revenues. The difference between current wholesale generation revenues and certain energy costs incurred are deferred for future recovery or refund, with no material impact to earnings.

Operating Expenses —

Total operating expenses increased $59 million primarily due to the following:

•Fuel expense decreased $128 million in 2020, as compared to 2019, primarily due to lower unit costs and lower fuel consumption as a result of economic dispatch and an increase in the number of planned outages as compared to 2019.

•Purchased power costs decreased $223 million in 2020, as compared to 2019, primarily due to lower prices and capacity expenses, the absence of the termination of Morgantown Energy Associates PPA and decreased purchases resulting from the expiration of a NUG contract, partially offset by the implementation of the New Jersey Zero Emission Program in June 2019 and an increase in the number of planned outages as compared to 2019.

----------------------------------- ------------------- -----
Source of Change in Purchased Power Increase (Decrease)

 (In millions)
Purchases
Change due to unit costs $ (185)
Change due to volumes 21
 (164)

Capacity expense (59)

Change in Purchased Power Costs $ (223)

•Other operating expenses increased $342 million primarily due to:

•Higher incremental uncollectible and other COVID-19 related expenses of $157 million, of which $99 million
was deferred for future recovery.
•Higher storm restoration costs of $75 million, which were mostly deferred for future recovery, resulting in no
material impact on current period earnings.

37

•Higher network transmission expenses of $49 million. These costs are deferred for future recovery, resulting in
no material impact on current period earnings.
•Higher pension and OPEB service costs of $33 million.
•Higher employee benefit costs of approximately $30 million.
•Higher other operating and maintenance expense of $40 million, primarily associated with increased material and contractor spend and an additional planned generation outage in 2020,
•Lower energy efficiency program costs of $42 million, which are deferred for future recovery, resulting in no material impact on earnings.

•Depreciation expense increased $33 million, primarily due to a higher asset base.

•Net amortization (deferral) of regulatory assets increased $25 million, primarily due to lower generation and transmission deferrals including the absence of the termination of the Morgantown Energy Associates PPA, the recovery of distribution investment programs and lower energy efficiency related costs, partially offset by the deferral of higher storm restoration costs, and uncollectible and other COVID-19 related costs.

•General taxes increased $10 million primarily due to higher Ohio property taxes and payroll taxes.

Other Expense —

Total other expense decreased $119 million, primarily due to lower pension and OPEB non-service costs, partially offset by a $33 million increase in pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustments, higher interest expense from debt issuances primarily at WP and MP, and increased borrowings under the Revolving Facilities. The 2020 mark-to-market adjustment resulted from a decrease in the discount rate used to measure benefit obligations, partially offset by higher than expected asset returns.

Income Taxes

Regulated Distribution’s effective tax rate was 10.5% and 20.1% for 2020 and 2019, respectively. The change in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the recognition of $52 million in deferred gains relating to prior intercompany transfers of generation assets that were triggered by the deconsolidation of the FES Debtors from FirstEnergy’s consolidated federal income tax group as a result of their emergence from bankruptcy in the first quarter of 2020. Additionally, FirstEnergy recorded a $40 million benefit related to reversals of certain tax regulatory liabilities resulting from the transfer of TMI-2.

Regulated Transmission — 2020 Compared with 2019

Regulated Transmission's operating results increased $17 million in 2020, as compared to 2019, primarily resulting from the impact of a higher rate base at ATSI, MAIT, and JCPL, and higher capitalized financing costs, partially offset by higher interest expense at FET and a true-up of the forward-looking formula rate at ATSI and MAIT.

Revenues —

Total revenues increased $104 million in 2020, as compared to 2019, primarily due to the recovery of incremental operating expenses and a higher rate base at ATSI, MAIT and JCP&L, partially offset by the impact of a true-up of the forward-looking rate.

Revenues by transmission asset owner are shown in the following table:

------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ----- ---- --- -------- ----- -- - ---
 For the Years Ended December 31,
Revenues by Transmission Asset Owner 2020 2019 Increase
 (In millions)
ATSI $ 809 $ 758 $ 51
TrAIL 255 251 4
MAIT 254 227 27
JCP&L 178 160 18
Other 134 130 4
Total Revenues $ 1,630 $ 1,526 $ 104

Operating Expenses —

Total operating expenses increased $63 million in 2020, as compared to 2019, primarily due to higher property taxes and depreciation due to a higher asset base. The majority of operating expenses are recovered through formula rates, resulting in no material impact on current period earnings.

38

Income Taxes —

Regulated Transmission’s effective tax rate was 22.9% and 20.2% for 2020 and 2019, respectively due to changes in the amortization of excess deferred income taxes and the absence of certain tax benefits recognized in 2019.

 Corporate/Other — 2020 Compared with 2019

Financial results from Corporate/Other and reconciling adjustments resulted in a $199 million increase in income from continuing operations for 2020 compared to 2019, primarily due to a $223 million decrease in the pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment, $10 million tax benefits from accelerated amortization of certain investment tax credits and lower other Pension and OPEB non-service costs. These were partially offset by higher other operating expenses from investigation-related costs and lower returns on certain equity method investments.

For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, FirstEnergy recorded income from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $76 million and $8 million, respectively. The change in discontinued operations, net of tax was primarily due to lower settlement-related expenses with the FES Debtors, including adjustments to the estimated worthless stock deduction and Intercompany Tax Allocation Agreement, as well as the acceleration of net pension and OPEB prior service credits in 2020 and the absence of tax expense in 2019 associated with non-deductible interest.

REGULATORY ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent amounts that are expected to be credited to customers through future regulated rates or amounts collected from customers for costs not yet incurred. FirstEnergy, the Utilities and the Transmission Companies net their regulatory assets and liabilities based on federal and state jurisdictions.

Management assesses the probability of recovery of regulatory assets at each balance sheet date and whenever new events occur. Factors that may affect probability relate to changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of a regulatory commission order or passage of new legislation. Management applies judgment in evaluating the evidence available to assess the probability of recovery of regulatory assets from customers, including, but not limited to evaluating evidence related to precedent for similar items at FirstEnergy and information on comparable companies within similar jurisdictions, as well as assessing progress of communications between FirstEnergy and regulators. Certain of these regulatory assets, totaling approximately $117 million and $111 million as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively, are recorded based on prior precedent or anticipated recovery based on rate making premises without a specific order, of which, $79 million and $73 million as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively, are being sought for recovery in a formula rate amendment filing at ATSI that is pending before FERC. See Note 14, "Regulatory Matters" for additional information.

The following table provides information about the composition of net regulatory assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, and the changes during the year ended December 31, 2020:

---------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ---------------- ----- ------ ------- ----- - ---
Net Regulatory Assets (Liabilities) by Source December 31,2020 December 31,2019 Change
 (In millions)

Customer payables for future income taxes $ (2,369) $ (2,605) $ 236
Nuclear decommissioning and spent fuel disposal costs (102) (197) 95
Asset removal costs (721) (756) 35
Deferred transmission costs 316 298 18
Deferred generation costs 104 214 (110)
Deferred distribution costs 136 155 (19)
Contract valuations 41 51 (10)
Storm-related costs 748 551 197
Uncollectible and COVID-19 related costs 97 3 94
Other 6 25 (19)
Net Regulatory Liabilities included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets $ (1,744) $ (2,261) $ 517

39

The following is a description of the regulatory assets and liabilities described above:

Customer payables for future income taxes - Reflects amounts to be recovered or refunded through future rates to pay income taxes that become payable when rate revenue is provided to recover items such as AFUDC-equity and depreciation of property, plant and equipment for which deferred income taxes were not recognized for ratemaking purposes, including amounts attributable to tax rate changes such as tax reform. These amounts are being amortized over the period in which the related deferred tax assets reverse, which is generally over the expected life of the underlying asset.

Nuclear decommissioning and spent fuel disposal costs - Reflects a regulatory liability representing amounts collected from customers and placed in external trusts including income, losses and changes in fair value thereon (as well as accretion of the related ARO) primarily for the future decommissioning of TMI-2 and spent nuclear fuel disposal costs. As further discussed below, TMI-2, along with the NDT and related decommissioning liabilities, was transferred to TMI-2 Solutions, LLC, a subsidiary of EnergySolutions, LLC, on December 18, 2020, and therefore the related regulatory liabilities were written off. The remaining balance as of December 31, 2020, reflects liabilities for spent nuclear fuel disposal costs from former nuclear generating facilities, Oyster Creek and TMI-2.

Asset removal costs - Primarily represents the rates charged to customers that include a provision for the cost of future activities to remove assets, including obligations for which an ARO has been recognized, that are expected to be incurred at the time of retirement.

Deferred transmission costs - Principally represents differences between revenues earned based on actual costs for the formula-rate Transmission Companies and the amounts billed. Amounts are recorded as a regulatory asset or liability and recovered or refunded, respectively, in subsequent periods.

Deferred generation costs - Primarily relates to regulatory assets associated with the securitized recovery of certain electric customer heating discounts, fuel and purchased power regulatory assets at the Ohio Companies (amortized through 2034) as well as the ENEC at MP and PE. MP and PE recover net power supply costs, including fuel costs, purchased power costs and related expenses, net of related market sales revenue through the ENEC. The ENEC rate is updated annually.

Deferred distribution costs - Primarily relates to the Ohio Companies' deferral of certain expenses resulting from distribution and reliability related expenditures, including interest (amortized through 2036), which are recorded as a regulatory asset or liability and recovered or refunded, respectively, in subsequent periods.

Contract valuations - Includes the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments at PE which were recorded in connection with the Allegheny Energy, Inc. merger representing the fair value of NUG purchased power contracts (amortized over the life of the contracts through 2030).

Storm-related costs - Relates to the recovery of storm costs, which vary by jurisdiction. Approximately $167 million and $193 million are currently being recovered through rates as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

Uncollectible and COVID-19 related costs - Includes the deferral of prudently incurred incremental costs arising from COVID-19, including uncollectible expenses under new and existing riders prior to the pandemic.

The following table provides information about the composition of net regulatory assets that do not earn a current return as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, of which approximately $195 million and $228 million, respectively, are currently being recovered through rates over varying periods, through 2068, depending on the nature of the deferral and the jurisdiction:

-------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- --- ---------------- --- ------ --- ---- - ---
Regulatory Assets by Source Not Earning a Current Return December 31,2020 December 31,2019 Change
 (in millions)

Deferred transmission costs $ 29 $ 27 $ 2
Deferred generation costs 5 15 (10)
Storm-related costs 654 471 183
COVID-19 related costs 66 — 66
Other 35 32 3
Regulatory Assets Not Earning a Current Return $ 789 $ 545 $ 244

40

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

FirstEnergy’s business is capital intensive, requiring significant resources to fund operating expenses, construction expenditures, scheduled debt maturities and interest payments, dividend payments, and contributions to its pension plan.

The $2.5 billion equity issuance in 2018 strengthened FirstEnergy’s balance sheet and supported the company’s transition to a fully regulated utility company. The shares of preferred stock participated in the dividend paid on common stock on an as-converted basis and were non-voting except in certain limited circumstances. Because of this equity issuance, FirstEnergy does not currently anticipate the need to issue additional equity through 2021 and expects to issue, subject to, among other things, market conditions, pricing terms and business operations, up to $600 million of equity annually in 2022 and 2023, including approximately $100 million in equity for its regular stock investment and employee benefit plans. FirstEnergy's expectations regarding the amount and timing of any potential equity issuances are subject to, among other matters, the ongoing government investigations and related lawsuits.

In addition to this equity investment, FE and its distribution and transmission subsidiaries expect their existing sources of liquidity to remain sufficient to meet their respective anticipated obligations. In addition to internal sources to fund liquidity and capital requirements for 2021 and beyond, FE and its distribution and transmission subsidiaries expect to rely on external sources of funds. Short-term cash requirements not met by cash provided from operations are generally satisfied through short-term borrowings. Long-term cash needs may be met through the issuance of long-term debt by FE and certain of its distribution and transmission subsidiaries to, among other things, fund capital expenditures and refinance short-term and maturing long-term debt, subject to market conditions and other factors.

On February 1, 2019, FirstEnergy made a $500 million voluntary cash contribution to the qualified pension plan. FirstEnergy expects no required contributions until 2022.

With an operating territory of 65,000 square miles, the scale and diversity of the ten Utilities that comprise the Regulated Distribution business uniquely position this business for growth through opportunities for additional investment. Over the past several years, Regulated Distribution has experienced rate base growth through investments that have improved reliability and added operating flexibility to the distribution infrastructure, which provide benefits to the customers and communities those Utilities serve. Additionally, this business is exploring other opportunities for growth, including investments in electric system improvement and modernization projects to increase reliability and improve service to customers, as well as exploring opportunities in customer engagement that focus on the electrification of customers’ homes and businesses by providing a full range of products and services.

Capital expenditures for 2019 and 2020 and forecasted expenditures for 2021, 2022, and 2023 by reportable segment are included below:

---------------------- ------------- ------ ----------- ------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ----- --------------------- ------------ --------------------- ------------- --
Reportable Segment 2019 Actual 2020 Actual 2021Forecast 2022Forecast 2023Forecast
 (In millions)
Regulated Distribution $1,698 $1,756 $1,725 $1,745 $1,680
Regulated Transmission 1,189 1,150 1,200 1,200 - 1,450 1,200 - 1,450
Corporate/Other 105 80 90 80 75
Total $2,992 $2,986 Up to $3,015 Up to $3,025 - $3,275 Up to $2,955 - $3,205

FirstEnergy believes there are incremental investment opportunities for its existing transmission infrastructure of over $20 billion beyond those identified through 2023, which are expected to strengthen grid and cyber-security and make the transmission system more reliable, robust, secure and resistant to extreme weather events, with improved operational flexibility.

In alignment with FirstEnergy’s strategy to invest in its Regulated Transmission and Regulated Distribution segments as a fully regulated company, FirstEnergy is focused on maintaining balance sheet strength and flexibility. Specifically, at the regulated businesses, regulatory authority has been obtained for various regulated distribution and transmission subsidiaries to issue and/or refinance debt.

Any financing plans by FE or any of its consolidated subsidiaries, including the issuance of equity and debt, and the refinancing of short-term and maturing long-term debt are subject to market conditions and other factors. No assurance can be given that any such issuances, financing or refinancing, as the case may be, will be completed as anticipated or at all. Any delay in the completion of financing plans could require FE or any of its consolidated subsidiaries to utilize short-term borrowing capacity, which could impact available liquidity. In addition, FE and its consolidated subsidiaries expect to continually evaluate any planned financings, which may result in changes from time to time.

On March 31, 2018, the FES Debtors announced that, in order to facilitate an orderly financial restructuring, they filed voluntary petitions under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code with the Bankruptcy Court. In September 2018, the Bankruptcy Court approved a FES Bankruptcy settlement agreement by and among FirstEnergy, two groups of key FES creditors

41

(collectively, the FES Key Creditor Groups), the FES Debtors and the UCC. The FES Bankruptcy settlement agreement resolved certain claims by FirstEnergy against the FES Debtors, all claims by the FES Debtors and the FES Key Creditor Groups against FirstEnergy, as well as releases from third parties who voted in favor of the FES Debtors' plan of reorganization, in return for among other things, a cash payment of $853 million upon emergence. The FES Bankruptcy settlement was conditioned on the FES Debtors confirming and effectuating a plan of reorganization acceptable to FirstEnergy.

On February 18, 2020, the FES Debtors and FirstEnergy entered into an IT Access Agreement that provided IT support to enable the FES Debtors to emerge from bankruptcy prior to full IT separation by the FES Debtors. As part of the IT Access Agreement, the FES Debtors and FirstEnergy resolved, among other things, the on-going reconciliation of outstanding tax sharing payments for tax years 2018, 2019 and 2020 for a total of $125 million. On February 25, 2020, the Bankruptcy Court approved the IT Access Agreement. On February 27, 2020, the FES Debtors effectuated their plan, emerged from bankruptcy and FirstEnergy tendered the settlement payments totaling $853 million and the $125 million tax sharing payment to the FES Debtors, with no material impact to net income in 2020.

The outbreak of COVID-19 is a global pandemic. FirstEnergy is continuously evaluating the global pandemic and taking steps to mitigate known risks. FirstEnergy is actively monitoring the continued impact COVID-19 is having on its customers’ receivable balances, which include increasing arrears balances since the pandemic has begun. FirstEnergy has incurred, and it is expected to incur for the foreseeable future, incremental uncollectible and other COVID-19 pandemic related expenses. COVID-19 related expenses consist of additional costs that FirstEnergy is incurring to protect its employees, contractors and customers, and to support social distancing requirements. These costs include, but are not limited to, new or added benefits provided to employees, the purchase of additional personal protection equipment and disinfecting supplies, additional facility cleaning services, initiated programs and communications to customers on utility response, and increased technology expenses to support remote working, where possible. The full impact on FirstEnergy’s business from the COVID-19 pandemic, including the governmental and regulatory responses, is unknown at this time and difficult to predict. FirstEnergy provides a critical and essential service to its customers and the health and safety of its employees, contractors and customers is its first priority. FirstEnergy is continuously monitoring its supply chain and is working closely with essential vendors to understand the continued impact the COVID-19 pandemic is having on its business, however, FirstEnergy does not currently expect disruptions in its ability to deliver service to customers or any material impact on its capital spending plan.

FirstEnergy continues to effectively manage operations during the pandemic in order to provide critical service to customers and believes it is well positioned to manage through the economic slowdown. FirstEnergy Distribution and Transmission revenues benefit from geographic and economic diversity across a five-state service territory, which also allows for flexibility with capital investments and measures to maintain sufficient liquidity over the next twelve months. However, the situation remains fluid and future impacts to FirstEnergy that are presently unknown or unanticipated may occur. Furthermore, the likelihood of an impact to FirstEnergy, and the severity of any impact that does occur, could increase the longer the global pandemic persists.

On July 21, 2020, a complaint and supporting affidavit containing federal criminal allegations were unsealed against the now former Ohio House Speaker Larry Householder and other individuals and entities allegedly affiliated with Mr. Householder. Also, on July 21, 2020, and in connection with the investigation, FirstEnergy received subpoenas for records from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the S.D. Ohio. FirstEnergy was not aware of the criminal allegations, affidavit or subpoenas before July 21, 2020. In addition to the subpoenas referenced above, the OAG, certain FE shareholders and FirstEnergy customers filed several lawsuits against FirstEnergy and certain current and former directors, officers and other employees, each relating to the allegations against the now former Ohio House Speaker Larry Householder and other individuals and entities allegedly affiliated with Mr. Householder. In addition, on August 10, 2020, the SEC, through its Division of Enforcement, issued an order directing an investigation of possible securities laws violations by FE, and on September 1, 2020, issued subpoenas to FE and certain FE officers.

The Board has formed a new sub-committee of our Audit committee to, together with the Board, assess FirstEnergy’s compliance program and implement potential changes, as appropriate. In addition, in his role of Executive Director, Mr. Pappas assisted the FirstEnergy leadership team with execution of strategic initiatives, engage with FirstEnergy’s external stakeholders, and support the development of enhanced controls and governance policies and procedures. Additionally, on February 17, 2021, the Board appointed Mr. John Somerhalder to the positions of Vice Chairperson of the Board and Executive Director, each effective as of March 1, 2021, increasing the size of the Board from 10 to 11 members. Mr. Somerhalder has been elected to serve for a term expiring at the Company's 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and until his successor shall have been elected. Mr. Donald T. Misheff will continue to serve as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board. Mr. Pappas, who was named to the temporary role of Executive Director in October 2020, will continue to serve on the Board of the Company as an independent director. Mr. Somerhalder will help lead efforts to enhance the company's reputation.

Despite the many disruptions FirstEnergy is currently facing, the leadership team remains committed and focused on executing its strategy and running the business. See “Outlook - Other Legal Proceedings” below for additional details on the government investigation and subsequent litigation surrounding the investigation of HB 6. See also “Outlook - State Regulation - Ohio” below for details on the PUCO proceeding reviewing political and charitable spending and legislative activity in response to the investigation of HB 6. The outcome of the government investigations, PUCO proceedings, legislative activity, and any of these lawsuits is uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on FE’s or its subsidiaries’ financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. FirstEnergy is considering reductions to its Regulated Distribution and Regulated Transmission capital

42

investment plans and reductions to operating expenses, as well as changes to its planned equity issuances, to allow for flexibility should a fine or other regulatory actions be imposed as a result of the government investigations.

FirstEnergy is also working to improve how it conducts business and serve its customers. To address opportunities for improvement, FirstEnergy kicked off a new initiative to make process and cultural improvements across our entire organization that will keep FirstEnergy moving forward in a positive direction. Called "FE Forward," the initiative will play a critical first step in our transformation journey as it looks to align business practices with our values and behaviors. FirstEnergy will do this by reviewing policies and practices as well as the structure and processes around how decisions are made. FirstEnergy expects that this project will not only help FirstEnergy overcome current uncertainties and challenges, but it will further our goal of creating a truly sustainable company and provide opportunities to reinvest in our employees and customers. The initial phase of FE Forward, which is expected to go through the first quarter of 2021, will involve a comprehensive assessment that will pinpoint the areas of opportunity across all business units and outline the project's scope.

As further discussed below, in connection with a partial settlement with the OAG and other parties, the Ohio Companies filed an application with the PUCO on February 1, 2021, to set the respective decoupling riders (Rider CSR) to zero. While the partial settlement with the OAG focused specifically on decoupling, the Ohio Companies will of their own accord not seek to recover lost distribution revenue from residential and commercial customers. FirstEnergy is committed to pursuing an open dialogue with stakeholders in an appropriate manner with respect to the numerous regulatory proceedings currently underway as further discussed herein. As a result of the partial settlement, and the decision to not seek lost distribution revenue, FirstEnergy recognized a $108 million pre-tax charge ($84 million after-tax) in the fourth quarter of 2020, and $77 million (pre-tax) of which is associated with forgoing collection of lost distribution revenue. FirstEnergy does not believe a refund for previously collected amounts under decoupling, which was approximately $18 million, is probable. Furthermore, as FirstEnergy would not have financially benefited from the Clean Air Fund included in HB 6, which is the mechanism to provide support to nuclear energy in Ohio, there is no expected additional impact to FirstEnergy due to any repeal of that provision of HB 6.

As of December 31, 2020, FirstEnergy’s net deficit in working capital (current assets less current liabilities) was primarily due to accounts payable, short-term borrowings, and accrued interest, taxes, compensation and benefits. FirstEnergy believes its cash from operations and available liquidity will be sufficient to meet its current working capital needs.

Short-Term Borrowings / Revolving Credit Facilities

FE and the Utilities and FET and certain of its subsidiaries participate in two separate five-year syndicated revolving credit facilities providing for aggregate commitments of $3.5 billion, which are available until December 6, 2022. Under the FE credit facility, an aggregate amount of $2.5 billion is available to be borrowed, repaid and reborrowed, subject to separate borrowing sublimits for each borrower including FE and its regulated distribution subsidiaries. Under the FET credit facility, an aggregate amount of $1.0 billion is available to be borrowed, repaid and reborrowed under a syndicated credit facility, subject to separate borrowing sublimits for each borrower including FE's transmission subsidiaries.

Borrowings under the credit facilities may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including intercompany loans and advances by a borrower to any of its subsidiaries. Generally, borrowings under each of the credit facilities are available to each borrower separately and mature on the earlier of 364 days from the date of borrowing or the commitment termination date, as the same may be extended. Each of the credit facilities contains financial covenants requiring each borrower to maintain a consolidated debt-to-total-capitalization ratio (as defined under each of the credit facilities) of no more than 65%, and 75% for FET, measured at the end of each fiscal quarter.

FirstEnergy’s revolving credit facilities bear interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on LIBOR. LIBOR tends to fluctuate based on general interest rates, rates set by the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks, the supply of and demand for credit in the London interbank market and general economic conditions. FirstEnergy has not hedged its interest rate exposure with respect to its floating rate debt. Accordingly, FirstEnergy’s interest expense for any particular period will fluctuate based on LIBOR and other variable interest rates. On July 27, 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (the authority that regulates LIBOR) announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. It is unclear whether new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021, and there is considerable uncertainty regarding the publication of LIBOR beyond 2021. The U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, is considering replacing U.S. dollar LIBOR with a newly created index, calculated based on repurchase agreements backed by treasury securities. It is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms or the establishment of alternative reference rates in the United Kingdom, the United States or elsewhere. To the extent these interest rates increase, interest expense will increase. If sources of capital for FirstEnergy are reduced, capital costs could increase materially. Restricted access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity.

On November 17, 2020, FE and the Utilities and FET and certain of its subsidiaries entered into amendments to the FE credit facility and the FET credit facility, respectively. The amendments provide for modifications and/or waivers of: (i) certain representations and warranties, and (ii) certain affirmative and negative covenants, contained therein, which allowed FirstEnergy to regain compliance with such provisions. In addition, among other things, the amendment to the FE credit facility reduces the

43

sublimit applicable to FE to $1.5 billion, and the amendments increased certain tiers of pricing applicable to borrowings under the credit facilities.

On November 23, 2020, FE and its regulated distribution subsidiaries, JCP&L, ME, Penn, TE and WP, borrowed $950 million in the aggregate under the FE Revolving Facility, bringing the outstanding principal balance under the FE Revolving Facility to $1.2 billion, with $1.3 billion of remaining availability under the FE Revolving Facility. On November 23, 2020, FET and its regulated transmission subsidiary, ATSI, borrowed $1 billion in the aggregate under the FET Revolving Facility, bringing the outstanding principal balance under the FET Revolving Facility to $1 billion, with no remaining availability under the FET Revolving Facility. FE, FET and certain of their respective subsidiaries increased their borrowings under the Revolving Facilities as a proactive measure to increase their respective cash positions and preserve financial flexibility.

FirstEnergy had $2.2 billion and $1.0 billion of short-term borrowings as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. FirstEnergy’s available liquidity from external sources as of February 15, 2021, was as follows:

-------------- ------------------------- ------------- ------------- ----- ------------------- - - -----
Borrower(s) Type Maturity Commitment Available Liquidity
 (In millions)
FirstEnergy(1) Revolving December 2022 $ 2,500 $ 1,296

FET(2) Revolving December 2022 1,000 —
 Subtotal $ 3,500 $ 1,296
 Cash and cash equivalents — 1,792
 Total $ 3,500 $ 3,088

(1)FE and the Utilities. Available liquidity includes impact of $4 million of LOCs issued under various terms.
(2)Includes FET and the Transmission Companies.

The following table summarizes the borrowing sublimits for each borrower under the facilities, the limitations on short-term indebtedness applicable to each borrower under current regulatory approvals and applicable statutory and/or charter limitations as of January 31, 2021:

-------- -------------------------------------------- --- ----- ------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------------- ----- - - --- --- - ---
Borrower FirstEnergy RevolvingCredit FacilitySublimit FET RevolvingCredit FacilitySublimit Regulatory andOther Short-Term Debt Limitations
 (In millions)
FE $ 1,500 $ — $ — (1)
FET — 1,000 — (1)
OE 500 — 500 (2)
CEI 500 — 500 (2)
TE 300 — 300 (2)
JCP&L 500 — 500 (2)
ME 500 — 500 (2)
PN 300 — 300 (2)
WP 200 — 200 (2)
MP 500 — 500 (2)
PE 150 — 150 (2)
ATSI — 500 500 (2)
Penn 100 — 100 (2)
TrAIL — 400 400 (2)
MAIT — 400 400 (2)

(1)No limitations.
(2)Includes amounts which may be borrowed under the regulated companies' money pool.

Subject to each borrower’s sublimit, $250 million of the FE credit facility and $100 million of the FET credit facility, is available for the issuance of LOCs (subject to borrowings drawn under the Facilities) expiring up to one year from the date of issuance. The stated amount of outstanding LOCs will count against total commitments available under each of the Facilities and against the applicable borrower’s borrowing sublimit.

The Facilities do not contain provisions that restrict the ability to borrow or accelerate payment of outstanding advances in the event of any change in credit ratings of the borrowers. Pricing is defined in “pricing grids,” whereby the cost of funds borrowed

44

under the Facilities is related to the credit ratings of the company borrowing the funds. Additionally, borrowings under each of the Facilities are subject to the usual and customary provisions for acceleration upon the occurrence of events of default, including a cross-default for other indebtedness in excess of $100 million.

As of December 31, 2020, the borrowers were in compliance with the applicable debt-to-total-capitalization ratio covenants in each case as defined under the respective Facilities.

FirstEnergy Money Pools

FirstEnergy’s utility operating subsidiary companies also have the ability to borrow from each other and FE to meet their short-term working capital requirements. Similar but separate arrangements exist among FirstEnergy’s unregulated companies with AE Supply, FE, FET, FEV and certain other unregulated subsidiaries. FESC administers these money pools and tracks surplus funds of FE and the respective regulated and unregulated subsidiaries, as the case may be, as well as proceeds available from bank borrowings. Companies receiving a loan under the money pool agreements must repay the principal amount of the loan, together with accrued interest, within 364 days of borrowing the funds. The rate of interest is the same for each company receiving a loan from their respective pool and is based on the average cost of funds available through the pool. The average interest rate for borrowings in 2020 was 0.89% per annum for the regulated companies’ money pool and 1.19% per annum for the unregulated companies’ money pool.

Long-Term Debt Capacity

FE's and its subsidiaries' access to capital markets and costs of financing are influenced by the credit ratings of their securities. The following table displays FE’s and its subsidiaries’ credit ratings as of February 15, 2021:

------ ----------------------- -------------- ---------------- ----------------- ------- ----- --- ------- ----- ---- ------- -----
 Corporate Credit Rating Senior Secured Senior Unsecured Outlook/Watch (1)
Issuer S&P Moody’s Fitch S&P Moody’s Fitch S&P Moody’s Fitch S&P Moody’s Fitch
FE BB Ba1 BB+ BB Ba1 BB+ CW-N N N
AGC BB Baa2 BBB- CW-N S N
ATSI BB A3 BBB- BB+ A3 BBB CW-N S N
CEI BB Baa2 BBB- BBB A3 BBB+ BB+ Baa2 BBB CW-N N N
FET BB Baa2 BB+ BB Baa2 BB+ CW-N N N
JCP&L BB A3 BBB- BB+ A3 BBB CW-N S N
ME BB A3 BBB- BB+ A3 BBB CW-N S N
MAIT BB A3 BBB- BB+ A3 BBB CW-N S N
MP BB Baa2 BBB- BBB A3 BBB+ BB+ Baa2 CW-N S N
OE BB A3 BBB- BBB A1 BBB+ BB+ A3 BBB CW-N N N
PN BB Baa1 BBB- BB+ Baa1 BBB CW-N S N
Penn BB A3 BBB- BBB A1 BBB+ CW-N S N
PE BB Baa2 BBB- BBB A3 BBB+ CW-N S N
TE BB Baa1 BBB- BBB A2 BBB+ CW-N N N
TrAIL BB A3 BBB- BB+ A3 BBB CW-N S N
WP BB A3 BBB- BBB A1 BBB+ CW-N S N

 (1) S = Stable, P = Positive, N = Negative, CW-N = CreditWatch with Negative implications

On May 27, 2020, Moody’s upgraded the issuer and senior unsecured ratings of JCP&L to A3 from Baa1 and the rating outlook was changed to stable.

On July 23, 2020, S&P placed the ratings of FE and its subsidiaries on CreditWatch with negative implications.

On July 24, 2020, Moody’s revised FE’s ratings outlook to negative from stable. FE’s Baa3 corporate credit rating and Baa3 senior unsecured rating were affirmed.

On July 28, 2020, Fitch revised FE and its subsidiaries, with the exception of MP, AGC and PE, ratings outlook to negative from stable. The outlook of MP, AGC and PE is stable. Fitch also affirmed FE and its subsidiary ratings.

On August 14, 2020, Moody’s affirmed OE’s A3 senior unsecured and issuer ratings and Penn’s A3 issuer rating. The outlooks were changed to stable from positive.

45

On October 30, 2020, Fitch downgraded FE and FET’s issuer default ratings and senior unsecured ratings one notch to BBB- from BBB. Fitch also downgraded FE’s subsidiaries issuer default ratings one notch to BBB from BBB+, except for PE, MP, and AGC, whose ratings were affirmed at BBB. Senior unsecured issue ratings for the subsidiaries were downgraded one notch, where applicable, to BBB+ from A-. Senior secured issue ratings for the subsidiaries were downgraded one notch, where applicable, to A- from A. The rating outlook is negative for FE and its subsidiaries.

On October 30, 2020, S&P downgraded FE and its subsidiaries issuer credit ratings two notches to BB+ from BBB, except for AGC which was lowered to BB from BBB-. The senior unsecured issue ratings of FE and FET were changed one notch to BB+ from BBB-. The senior unsecured issue ratings of the subsidiaries, where applicable, were lowered one notch to BBB- from BBB. Additionally, the senior secured issue ratings of the subsidiaries, where applicable, were lowered one notch to BBB+ from A-. The ratings on FE and its subsidiaries remain on CreditWatch with negative implications.

On November 20, 2020, Fitch downgraded the issuer default rating (IDR) and senior unsecured ratings of FE and FET one notch, to BB+ from BBB-. The IDRs of the remaining subsidiaries were also lowered one notch to BBB- from BBB, the senior unsecured ratings were lowered (where applicable) one notch to BBB from BBB+, and the senior secured ratings were lowered (where applicable) one notch to BBB+ from A-. The outlook for FE and its subsidiaries remains negative.

On November 24, 2020, Moody’s downgraded the ratings of FE Corp, including its senior unsecured rating to Ba1 from Baa3. Moody’s also assigned a Ba1 Corporate Family Rating to FE and withdrew FE’s Baa3 Issuer Rating. The outlook for FE remains negative. Additionally, the outlooks for OE, TE, CE, and FET were changed to negative from stable.

On November 24, 2020, S&P downgraded FE and its subsidiaries issuer credit ratings to BB from BB+ and affirmed the BB issuer credit rating of AGC. The senior unsecured ratings on FE and FET were lowered to BB from BB+. The subsidiary senior unsecured ratings were lowered, where applicable, to BB+ from BBB-, and the senior secured ratings, where applicable, were lowered to BBB from BBB+. The ratings remain on CreditWatch Negative.

On December 17, 2020, Moody’s assigned senior secured ratings of A3 to PE and A1 to WP.

On December 21, 2020, S&P assigned senior secured ratings of BBB to PE, Penn and WP.

As of December 31, 2020, $20 million of collateral has been posted by FE or its subsidiaries, of which, $19 million was posted as a result of the credit rating downgrades in the fourth quarter of 2020.

The applicable undrawn and drawn margin on the FE and FET credit facilities are subject to ratings-based pricing grids. The applicable fee paid on the undrawn commitments under the FE and FET credit facilities are based on FE and FET’s senior unsecured non-credit enhanced debt ratings as determined by S&P and Moody’s. The fee paid on actual borrowings are determined based on each borrower’s senior unsecured non-credit enhanced debt ratings as determined by S&P and Moody’s.

The interest rate payable on approximately $3.85 billion in FE’s senior unsecured notes are subject to adjustments from time to time if the ratings on the notes from any one or more of S&P, Moody’s and Fitch decreases to a rating set forth in the applicable documents. Generally a one-notch downgrade by the applicable rating agency may result in a 25 bps coupon rate increase beginning at BB, Ba1, and BB+ for S&P, Moody’s and Fitch, respectively, to the extent such rating is applicable to the series of outstanding senior unsecured notes, during the next interest period, subject to an aggregate cap of 2% from issuance interest rate.

Debt capacity is subject to the consolidated debt-to-total-capitalization limits in the credit facilities previously discussed. As of December 31, 2020, FE and its subsidiaries could issue additional debt of approximately $4.8 billion, or incur a $2.6 billion reduction to equity, and remain within the limitations of the financial covenants required by the FE credit facility.

Changes in Cash Position

As of December 31, 2020, FirstEnergy had $1,734 million of cash and cash equivalents and approximately $67 million of restricted cash compared to $627 million of cash and cash equivalents and approximately $52 million of restricted cash as of December 31, 2019, on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Cash Flows From Operating Activities

FirstEnergy's most significant sources of cash are derived from electric service provided by its distribution and transmission operating subsidiaries. Beyond the cash settlement and tax sharing payments to the FES Debtors in 2020, and pension contribution in 2019, the most significant use of cash from operating activities is buying electricity to serve non-shopping customers and paying fuel suppliers, employees, tax authorities, lenders and others for a wide range of materials and services.

Net cash provided from operating activities was $1,423 million during 2020, $2,467 million during 2019 and $1,410 million during 2018.

46

2020 compared with 2019

Cash flows from operations decreased $1,044 million in 2020 as compared with 2019. The year-over-year change in cash from operations is primarily due to the $978 million cash settlement and tax sharing payments made to the FES Debtors upon their emergence in February 2020, an increase to accounts receivable customer balances due to the impact of COVID-19, and higher storm restoration costs, partially offset by the absence of a $500 million cash contribution to the qualified pension plan in 2019.

FirstEnergy's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows combine cash flows from discontinued operations with cash flows from continuing operations within each cash flow category. The following table summarizes the major classes of operating cash flow items from discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -- ---- ---- ---- - ----- - ---
 For the Years Ended December 31,
(In millions) 2020 2019 2018

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Income from discontinued operations $ 76 $ 8 $ 326
Gain on disposal, net of tax (76) (59) (435)
Depreciation and amortization, including nuclear fuel, regulatory assets, net, intangible assets and deferred debt-related costs — — 110
Deferred income taxes and investment tax credits, net — 47 61
Unrealized (gain) loss on derivative transactions — — (10)

47

Cash Flows From Financing Activities

Cash provided from financing activities was $2,607 million, $656 million, and $1,394 million in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. The following table summarizes new equity and debt financing, redemptions, repayments, make-whole premiums paid on debt redemptions short-term borrowings and dividends:

---------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ------- - -------
 For the Years Ended December 31,
Securities Issued or Redeemed / Repaid 2020 2019 2018
 (In millions)
New Issues
Preferred stock issuance $ — $ — $ 1,616
Common stock issuance — — 850
Unsecured notes 3,250 1,850 850
PCRBs — — 74

FMBs 175 450 50
Term loan — — 500

 $ 3,425 $ 2,300 $ 3,940

Redemptions / Repayments
Unsecured notes $ (250) $ (725) $ (555)
PCRBs — — (216)
FMBs (50) (1) (325)
Term loan (750) — (1,450)
Senior secured notes (64) (63) (62)

 $ (1,114) $ (789) $ (2,608)

Tender premiums paid on debt redemptions $ — $ — $ (89)

Short-term borrowings, net $ 1,200 $ — $ 950

Preferred stock dividend payments $ — $ (6) $ (61)

Common stock dividend payments $ (845) $ (814) $ (711)

On February 20, 2020, FE issued $1.75 billion in senior unsecured notes in three separate series: (i) $300 million aggregate principal amount of 2.050% Notes, Series A, due 2025, (ii) $600 million aggregate principal amount of 2.650% Notes, Series B, due 2030 and (iii) $850 million aggregate principal amount of 3.400% Notes, Series C, due 2050. Proceeds from the issuance of the notes, together with cash on hand, were used: (i) to repay the entire $750 million two-year term loan due September 2021, (ii) to make the $853 million in bankruptcy settlement payments and $125 million tax sharing agreement payment with the FES Debtors as discussed above, (iii) to repay $250 million of the $1 billion outstanding 364-day term loan due September 2020, and (iv) for working capital needs and general corporate purposes.

On March 31, 2020, MAIT issued $125 million of 3.60% senior unsecured notes due 2032 and $125 million of 3.70% senior unsecured notes due 2035. Proceeds from the issuance of the notes were used: (i) to refinance existing debt, (ii) for capital expenditures, and (iii) for general corporate purposes.

On April 20, 2020, PN issued $125 million of 3.61% senior unsecured notes due 2032 and $125 million of 3.71% senior unsecured notes due 2035. Proceeds of the issuance of the notes were used: (i) to refinance indebtedness, including short-term borrowings incurred under the FirstEnergy regulated money pool to repay a portion of the $250 million aggregate principle amount of PN’s 5.20% Senior Notes due April 1, 2020, (ii) to fund capital expenditures, (iii) to fund general corporate purposes, or (iv) for any combination of the above.

On June 8, 2020, FE issued $750 million in senior unsecured notes in two separate series: (i) $300 million aggregate principal amounts of 1.600% Notes, Series A, due 2026 and (ii) $450 million aggregate principal amount of 2.250% Notes, Series B, due 2030. Proceeds from the issuance of the notes were used to repay all amounts outstanding under the 364-day term loan due September 2020.

48

On June 29, 2020, PE issued $75 million of 2.67% FMBs due 2032 and $100 million of 3.43% FMBs due 2051. Proceeds of the issuance of the FMBs were used to repay short-term borrowings under the FirstEnergy regulated money pool, to fund capital expenditures, and for general corporate purposes.

On July 20, 2020, CEI issued $150 million of 2.77% senior unsecured notes due 2034 and $100 million of 3.23% senior unsecured notes due 2040. Proceeds from the issuance of the notes were used to refinance existing short-term borrowings, to fund capital expenditures, and for general corporate purposes.

    Cash Flows From Investing Activities

Cash used for investing activities in 2020 principally represented cash used for property additions. The following table summarizes investing activities for 2020, 2019 and 2018:

-------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - -----
 For the Years Ended December 31,
Cash Used for (Provided from) Investing Activities 2020 2019 2018
 (In millions)
Property Additions:
Regulated Distribution $ 1,514 $ 1,473 $ 1,411
Regulated Transmission 1,067 1,090 1,104

Corporate/Other 76 102 160
Proceeds from asset sales (2) (47) (425)
Investments 22 38 54
Notes receivable from affiliated companies — — 500
Asset removal costs 224 217 218
Other 7 — (4)
 $ 2,908 $ 2,873 $ 3,018

FirstEnergy's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows combines cash flows from discontinued operations with cash flows from continuing operations within each cash flow category. The following table summarizes the major classes of investing cash flow items from discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:

------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- - ---- - ---- - ----- - ----
 For the Years Ended December 31,
(In millions) 2020 2019 2018

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Property additions $ — $ — $ (27)

Sales of investment securities held in trusts — — 109
Purchases of investment securities held in trusts — — (122)

49

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

As of December 31, 2020, FirstEnergy's estimated undiscounted cash payments under existing contractual obligations that it considers firm obligations are as follows:

----------------------------- ------------- ------ ---- ----- --------- ----- --------- ---------- ----- ----- ----- - ------
Contractual Obligations Total 2021 2022-2023 2024-2025 Thereafter
 (In millions)
Long-term debt(1) $ 22,377 $ 132 $ 2,337 $ 3,269 $ 16,639
Short-term borrowings 2,200 2,200 — — —
Interest on long-term debt(2) 12,808 999 1,874 1,647 8,288
Operating leases(3) 366 50 95 74 147
Finance leases(3) 61 18 23 8 12
Fuel and purchased power(4) 3,049 499 883 652 1,015
Capital expenditures(5) 2,028 548 778 702 —
Pension funding 870 — 399 471 —
Total $ 43,759 $ 4,446 $ 6,389 $ 6,823 $ 26,101

(1)Excludes unamortized discounts and premiums, fair value accounting adjustments and finance leases.
(2)Interest on variable-rate debt based on rates as of December 31, 2020.
(3)See Note 8, "Leases," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
(4)Amounts under contract with fixed or minimum quantities based on estimated annual requirements.
(5)Amounts represent committed capital expenditures as of December 31, 2020.

Excluded from the table above are estimates for the cash outlays from power purchase contracts entered into by most of the Utilities and under which they procure the power supply necessary to provide generation service to their customers who do not choose an alternative supplier. Although actual amounts will be determined by future customer behavior and consumption levels, management currently estimates these cash outlays will be approximately $2.7 billion in 2021.

The table above also excludes regulatory liabilities (see Note 14, "Regulatory Matters"), AROs (see Note 13, "Asset Retirement Obligations"), reserves for litigation, injuries and damages, environmental remediation, and annual insurance premiums since the amount and timing of the cash payments are uncertain. The table also excludes accumulated deferred income taxes and investment tax credits since cash payments for income taxes are determined based primarily on taxable income for each applicable fiscal year.

50

GUARANTEES AND OTHER ASSURANCES

FirstEnergy has various financial and performance guarantees and indemnifications which are issued in the normal course of business. These contracts include performance guarantees, stand-by letters of credit, debt guarantees, surety bonds and indemnifications. FirstEnergy enters into these arrangements to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties by enhancing the value of the transaction to the third party. The maximum potential amount of future payments FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries could be required to make under these guarantees as of December 31, 2020, was approximately $1.7 billion, as summarized below:

---------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- -----
Guarantees and Other Assurances Maximum Exposure
 (In millions)

FE's Guarantees on Behalf of its Consolidated Subsidiaries
AE Supply asset sales(1) $ 570

Deferred compensation arrangements 475
Fuel related contracts and other 7
 1,052
FE's Guarantees on Other Assurances
Global Holding Facility 108
Deferred compensation arrangements 146
Surety Bonds 328

LOCs and other 16
 598
Total Guarantees and Other Assurances $ 1,650

(1)As a condition to closing AE Supply's sale of four natural gas generating plants and an approximately 59% portion of AGC's interest in the Bath Power Station, FE provided the purchaser two limited three-year guarantees totaling $555 million of certain obligations of AE Supply and AGC, which by their terms expire in May 2021. In addition, as a condition to closing AE Supply's transfer of Pleasants Power Station and as contemplated under the FES Bankruptcy settlement agreement, FE has provided two additional guarantees for certain retained liabilities of AE Supply, the first totaling up to $15 million for certain environmental liabilities associated with Pleasants Power Station, and the second being limited solely to environmental liabilities for the McElroy's Run CCR impoundment facility, for which an ARO of $46 million is reflected on FirstEnergy's Consolidated Balance Sheet, and which is not reflected on the table above.

Collateral and Contingent-Related Features

In the normal course of business, FE and its subsidiaries may enter into physical or financially settled contracts for the sale and purchase of electric capacity, energy, fuel and emission allowances. Certain agreements contain provisions that require FE or its subsidiaries to post collateral. This collateral may be posted in the form of cash or credit support with thresholds contingent upon FE's or its subsidiaries' credit rating from each of the major credit rating agencies. The collateral and credit support requirements vary by contract and by counterparty.

As of December 31, 2020, $20 million of collateral has been posted by FE or its subsidiaries, of which, $19 million was posted as a result of the credit rating downgrades in the fourth quarter of 2020, as further discussed above.

These credit-risk-related contingent features stipulate that if the subsidiary were to be downgraded or lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating), it would be required to provide additional collateral. The following table discloses the potential additional credit rating contingent contractual collateral obligations as of December 31, 2020:

------------------------------------------------- ----------------- -- -- --- ----- --- --- - ---
Potential Collateral Obligations Utilities and FET FE Total
 (In millions)
Contractual Obligations for Additional Collateral

Upon Further Downgrade $ 37 $ — $ 37

Surety Bonds (Collateralized Amount)(1) 55 258 313
Total Exposure from Contractual Obligations $ 92 $ 258 $ 350

(1) Surety Bonds are not tied to a credit rating. Surety Bonds' impact assumes maximum contractual obligations, which is ordinarily 100% of the face amount of the surety bond except with the respect to $39 million of surety obligations for which the collateral obligation is capped at 60% of the face amount, and typical obligations require 30 days to cure.

51

Other Commitments and Contingencies

FE is a guarantor under a $120 million syndicated senior secured term loan facility due November 12, 2024, under which Global Holding's outstanding principal balance is $108 million as of December 31, 2020. Signal Peak, Global Rail, Global Mining Group, LLC and Global Coal Sales Group, LLC, each being a direct or indirect subsidiary of Global Holding, and FE continue to provide their joint and several guaranties of the obligations of Global Holding under the facility.

In connection with the facility, 69.99% of Global Holding's direct and indirect membership interests in Signal Peak, Global Rail and their affiliates along with FEV's and WMB Marketing Ventures, LLC's respective 33-1/3% membership interests in Global Holding, are pledged to the lenders under the current facility as collateral.

MARKET RISK INFORMATION

FirstEnergy uses various market risk sensitive instruments, including derivative contracts, primarily to manage the risk of price and interest rate fluctuations. FirstEnergy’s Risk Policy Committee, comprised of members of senior management, provides general oversight for risk management activities throughout the company.

Commodity Price Risk

FirstEnergy has limited exposure to financial risks resulting from fluctuating commodity prices, including prices for electricity, natural gas, coal and energy transmission. FirstEnergy's Risk Management Committee is responsible for promoting the effective design and implementation of sound risk management programs and oversees compliance with corporate risk management policies and established risk management practice.

The valuation of derivative contracts is based on observable market information. As of December 31, 2020, FirstEnergy has a net liability of $3 million in non-hedge derivative contracts that are related to FTRs at certain of the Utilities. FTRs are subject to regulatory accounting and do not impact earnings.

Equity Price Risk

As of December 31, 2020, the FirstEnergy pension plan assets were allocated approximately as follows: 23% in equity securities, 35% in fixed income securities, 7% in hedge funds, 4% in insurance-linked securities, 9% in real estate, 5% in private equity and 17% in cash and short-term securities. A decline in the value of pension plan assets could result in additional funding requirements. FirstEnergy’s funding policy is based on actuarial computations using the projected unit credit method. On February 1, 2019, FirstEnergy made a $500 million voluntary cash contribution to the qualified pension plan. As a result of this contribution and pension investment performance returns to date, FirstEnergy expects no required contributions until 2022. As of December 31, 2020, FirstEnergy's OPEB plan assets were allocated approximately 55% in equity securities, 28% in fixed income securities and 17% in cash and short-term securities. Investment markets experienced elevated market volatility during 2020 as a result of the U.S. general election and the COVID-19 pandemic. In order to reduce the effect of market volatility on the plan's funded status and to preserve capital gains experienced during the first half of 2020, approximately $1.4 billion of return-seeking assets were sold (including approximately $800 million of equity securities) during the third quarter of 2020. These assets are expected be reinvested in return seeking investments (including equity securities) during 2021, which will more consistently align the pension and OPEB trust portfolios to the company’s target asset allocations. See Note 5, "Pension and Other Post-Employment Benefits," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on FirstEnergy's pension and OPEB plans.

During 2020, FirstEnergy's pension and OPEB plan assets gained approximately 14.8% and 13.2%, respectively, as compared to an annual expected return on plan assets of 7.50%. On February 27, 2020, FirstEnergy remeasured its plan assets, and from that date through December 31, 2020, FirstEnergy's pension and OPEB plan assets gained approximately 11.6% and 12.5%, respectively.

52

Interest Rate Risk

FirstEnergy’s exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of debt has fixed interest rates, as noted in the table below. FirstEnergy is subject to the inherent interest rate risks related to refinancing maturing debt by issuing new debt securities.

------------------------------------------------- ------------- --- ---- --- ---- ----- ---- - ---- ----- ----------- ----- ----- ---------- --- - ----- --- - - ------ - ------ - ------
Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value
Year of Maturity 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 There-after Total Fair Value
 (In millions)
Assets:
Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents:
Fixed Income $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 276 $ 276 $ 401
Average interest rate — % — % — % — % — % 4.0 % 4.0 %

Liabilities:
Long-term Debt:
Fixed rate $ 132 $ 1,143 $ 1,194 $ 1,246 $ 2,023 $ 16,639 $ 22,377 $ 25,465
Average interest rate 3.7 % 4.1 % 4.1 % 4.7 % 3.8 % 4.6 % 4.5 %

FirstEnergy recognizes net actuarial gains or losses for its pension and OPEB plans in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement. A primary factor contributing to these actuarial gains and losses are changes in the discount rates used to value pension and OPEB obligations as of the measurement date and the difference between expected and actual returns on the plans’ assets.

CREDIT RISK

Credit risk is the risk that FirstEnergy would incur a loss as a result of nonperformance by counterparties of their contractual obligations. FirstEnergy maintains credit policies and procedures with respect to counterparty credit (including requirement that counterparties maintain specified credit ratings) and require other assurances in the form of credit support or collateral in certain circumstance in order to limit counterparty credit risk. In addition, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, FirstEnergy has increased reviews of counterparties, customers and industries that have been negatively impacted, which could affect meeting contractual obligations with FirstEnergy. FirstEnergy has concentrations of suppliers and customers among electric utilities, financial institutions and energy marketing and trading companies. These concentrations may impact FirstEnergy's overall exposure to credit risk, positively or negatively, as counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in economic, regulatory or other conditions. In the event an energy supplier of the Ohio Companies, Pennsylvania Companies, JCP&L or PE defaults on its obligation, the affected company would be required to seek replacement power in the market. In general, subject to regulatory review or other processes, it is expected that appropriate incremental costs incurred by these entities would be recoverable from customers through applicable rate mechanisms, thereby mitigating the financial risk for these entities. FirstEnergy's credit policies to manage credit risk include the use of an established credit approval process, daily credit mitigation provisions, such as margin, prepayment or collateral requirements, and surveys to determine negative impacts to essential vendors as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries may request additional credit assurance, in certain circumstances, in the event that the counterparties' credit ratings fall below investment grade, their tangible net worth falls below specified percentages or their exposures exceed an established credit limit.

OUTLOOK
CARES ACT

On March 27, 2020, President Trump signed into law the CARES Act, an economic stimulus package in response to the COVID-19 pandemic containing several corporate income tax provisions, including making remaining AMT credits immediately refundable; providing a 5-year carryback of NOLs generated in tax years 2018, 2019, and 2020, and removing the 80% taxable income limitation on utilization of those NOLs if carried back to prior tax years or utilized in tax years beginning before 2021; and temporarily liberalizing the interest deductibility rules under Section 163(j) of the Tax Act, by raising the adjusted taxable income limitation from 30% to 50% for tax years 2019 and 2020 and giving taxpayers the election of using 2019 adjusted taxable income for purposes of computing 2020 interest deductibility. FirstEnergy has applied for refund of its remaining approximately $18 million refundable AMT credits. FirstEnergy does not expect to generate additional income tax refunds from the carryback of NOLs and expects interest to be fully deductible in the 2020 consolidated federal income tax return and going forward. FirstEnergy does not currently expect the other provisions of the CARES Act to have a material effect on current income tax expense or the realizability of deferred income tax assets.

53

On July 28, 2020, the IRS issued final regulations implementing interest expense deduction limitation rules under section 163(j) of the Internal Revenue Code. The final regulations changed certain rules on the computation of interest expense and limitation amount, as well as rules relevant to status as a regulated utility business and the allocation of consolidated group interest expense between utility and non-utility businesses. After reviewing the final regulations, FirstEnergy recorded a true-up to prior years’ reserve estimates during the third quarter of 2020, which did not have a material impact to FirstEnergy’s income statement. On January 6, 2021, the IRS released an additional set of final regulations under Section 163(j) primarily addressing partnership, real estate, and certain controlled foreign corporation issues, which do not materially impact FirstEnergy.

STATE REGULATION

Each of the Utilities' retail rates, conditions of service, issuance of securities and other matters are subject to regulation in the states in which it operates - in Maryland by the MDPSC, in New Jersey by the NJBPU, in Ohio by the PUCO, in Pennsylvania by the PPUC, in West Virginia by the WVPSC and in New York by the NYPSC. The transmission operations of PE in Virginia, ATSI in Ohio, and the Transmission Companies in Pennsylvania are subject to certain regulations of the VSCC, PUCO and PPUC, respectively. In addition, under Ohio law, municipalities may regulate rates of a public utility, subject to appeal to the PUCO if not acceptable to the utility. Further, if any of the FirstEnergy affiliates were to engage in the construction of significant new transmission facilities, depending on the state, they may be required to obtain state regulatory authorization to site, construct and operate the new transmission facility.

The following table summarizes the key terms of distribution rate orders in effect for the Utilities:

------------------ --------------- ------------------- -----------
Company Rates Effective Allowed Debt/Equity Allowed ROE
CEI May 2009 51% / 49% 10.5%
ME(1) January 2017 48.8% / 51.2% Settled(2)
MP February 2015 54% / 46% Settled(2)
JCP&L(3) January 2017 55% / 45% 9.6%
OE January 2009 51% / 49% 10.5%
PE (West Virginia) February 2015 54% / 46% Settled(2)
PE (Maryland) March 2019 47% / 53% 9.65%
PN(1) January 2017 47.4% / 52.6% Settled(2)
Penn(1) January 2017 49.9% / 50.1% Settled(2)
TE January 2009 51% / 49% 10.5%
WP(1) January 2017 49.7% / 50.3% Settled(2)

(1) Reflects filed debt/equity as final settlement/orders do not specifically include capital structure.
(2) Commission-approved settlement agreements did not disclose ROE rates.
(3) On October 28, 2020, the NJBPU approved JCP&L's distribution rate case settlement with an allowed ROE of 9.6% and a 48.56% debt / 51.44% equity capital structure. Rates are effective for customers on November 1, 2021, but beginning January 1, 2021, JCP&L will offset the impact to customers' bills by amortizing an $86 million regulatory liability.

MARYLAND

PE operates under MDPSC approved base rates that were effective as of March 23, 2019. PE also provides SOS pursuant to a combination of settlement agreements, MDPSC orders and regulations, and statutory provisions. SOS supply is competitively procured in the form of rolling contracts of varying lengths through periodic auctions that are overseen by the MDPSC and a third-party monitor. Although settlements with respect to SOS supply for PE customers have expired, service continues in the same manner until changed by order of the MDPSC. PE recovers its costs plus a return for providing SOS.

The EmPOWER Maryland program requires each electric utility to file a plan to reduce electric consumption and demand 0.2% per year, up to the ultimate goal of 2% annual savings, for the duration of the 2018-2020 and 2021-2023 EmPOWER Maryland program cycles, to the extent the MDPSC determines that cost-effective programs and services are available. PE's approved 2018-2020 EmPOWER Maryland plan continues and expands upon prior years' programs, and adds new programs, for a projected total cost of $116 million over the three-year period. PE recovers program costs through an annually reconciled surcharge, with most costs subject to a five-year amortization. Maryland law only allows for the utility to recover lost distribution revenue attributable to energy efficiency or demand reduction programs through a base rate case proceeding, and to date, such recovery has not been sought or obtained by PE. On September 1, 2020, PE filed its proposed plan for the 2021-2023 EmPOWER Maryland program cycle. The new plan largely continues PE’s existing programs and is estimated to cost approximately $148 million over the three-year period. The MDPSC approved the plan on December 18, 2020.

On January 19, 2018, PE filed a joint petition along with other utility companies, work group stakeholders and the MDPSC electric vehicle work group leader to implement a statewide electric vehicle portfolio in connection with a 2016 MDPSC proceeding to consider an array of issues relating to electric distribution system design, including matters relating to electric vehicles, distributed energy resources, advanced metering infrastructure, energy storage, system planning, rate design, and impacts on low-income customers. PE proposed an electric vehicle charging infrastructure program at a projected total cost of

54

$12 million, to be recovered over a five-year amortization. On January 14, 2019, the MDPSC approved the petition subject to certain reductions in the scope of the program. The MDPSC approved PE’s compliance filing, which implements the pilot program, with minor modifications, on July 3, 2019.

On August 24, 2018, PE filed a base rate case with the MDPSC, which it supplemented on October 22, 2018, to update the partially forecasted test year with a full twelve months of actual data. The rate case requested an annual increase in base distribution rates of $19.7 million, plus creation of an EDIS to fund four enhanced service reliability programs. In responding to discovery, PE revised its request for an annual increase in base rates to $17.6 million. The proposed rate increase reflected $7.3 million in annual savings for customers resulting from the recent federal tax law changes. On March 22, 2019, the MDPSC issued a final order that approved a rate increase of $6.2 million, approved three of the four EDIS programs for four years, directed PE to file a new depreciation study within 18 months, and ordered the filing of a new base rate case in four years to correspond to the ending of the approved EDIS programs. On September 22, 2020, PE filed its depreciation study reflecting a depreciation expense of $36.2 million, which represented a slight increase, and as a result, is seeking difference in depreciation be deferred for future recovery in PE’s next base rate case. The MDPSC has set the matter for hearing and delegated it to a public utility law judge. On November 6, 2020, an order was issued scheduling evidentiary hearings in April 2021. On January 29, 2021, the Maryland Office of People's Counsel filed testimony recommending a reduction in depreciation expense of $10.8 million, and the staff of the MDPSC filed testimony recommending a reduction of $9.6 million. PE's rebuttal testimony is due on March 2, 2021.

Maryland’s Governor issued an order on March 16, 2020, forbidding utilities from terminating residential service or charging late fees for non-payment for the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. On April 9, 2020, the MDPSC issued an order allowing utilities to track and create a regulatory asset for future recovery of all prudently incurred incremental costs arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, including incremental uncollectible expense, incurred from the date of the Governor’s order (or earlier if the utility could show that the expenses related to suspension of service terminations). On July 8, 2020, the MDPSC issued a notice opening a public conference to collect information from utilities and other stakeholders about the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the utilities and their customers. The MDPSC subsequently issued orders allowing Maryland electric and gas utilities to resume residential service terminations for non-payment on November 15, 2020, subject to various restrictions, and clarifying that utilities could resume charging late fees on October 1, 2020.

NEW JERSEY

JCP&L operates under NJBPU approved rates that were effective as of January 1, 2017. JCP&L provides BGS for retail customers who do not choose a third-party EGS and for customers of third-party EGSs that fail to provide the contracted service. All New Jersey EDCs participate in this competitive BGS procurement process and recover BGS costs directly from customers as a charge separate from base rates.

On April 18, 2019, pursuant to the May 2018 New Jersey enacted legislation establishing a ZEC program to provide ratepayer funded subsidies of New Jersey nuclear energy supply, the NJBPU approved the implementation of a non-bypassable, irrevocable ZEC charge for all New Jersey electric utility customers, including JCP&L’s customers. Once collected from customers by JCP&L, these funds will be remitted to eligible nuclear energy generators.

In December 2017, the NJBPU issued proposed rules to modify its current CTA policy in base rate cases to: (i) calculate savings using a five-year look back from the beginning of the test year; (ii) allocate savings with 75% retained by the company and 25% allocated to ratepayers; and (iii) exclude transmission assets of electric distribution companies in the savings calculation, which were published in the NJ Register in the first quarter of 2018. JCP&L filed comments supporting the proposed rulemaking. On January 17, 2019, the NJBPU approved the proposed CTA rules with no changes. On May 17, 2019, the Rate Counsel filed an appeal with the Appellate Division of the Superior Court of New Jersey. Oral Argument is scheduled for March 10, 2021. JCP&L is contesting this appeal but is unable to predict the outcome of this matter.

Also, in December 2017, the NJBPU approved its IIP rulemaking. The IIP creates a financial incentive for utilities to accelerate the level of investment needed to promote the timely rehabilitation and replacement of certain non-revenue producing components that enhance reliability, resiliency, and/or safety. On May 8, 2019, the NJBPU approved a stipulation of settlement submitted by JCP&L, Rate Counsel, NJBPU staff and New Jersey Large Energy Users Coalition to implement JCP&L’s infrastructure plan, JCP&L Reliability Plus. The plan provides that JCP&L will invest up to approximately $97 million in capital investments beginning on June 1, 2019 through December 31, 2020, to enhance the reliability and resiliency of JCP&L’s distribution system and reduce the frequency and duration of power outages. JCP&L shall seek recovery of the capital investment through an accelerated cost recovery mechanism, provided for in the rules, that includes a revenue adjustment calculation and a process for two rate adjustments. The NJBPU approved adjusted rates that took effect on March 1, 2020. As further discussed below, JCP&L will recover the IIP capital investments, which totaled $97 million, as part of its distribution base rate case.

On February 18, 2020, JCP&L submitted a filing with the NJBPU requesting a distribution base rate increase of $186.9 million on an annual basis, which represents an overall average increase in JCP&L rates of 7.8%. The filing seeks to recover certain costs associated with providing safe and reliable electric service to JCP&L customers, along with recovery of previously incurred storm costs. JCP&L proposed a rate effective date of March 19, 2020. The NJBPU issued orders suspending JCP&L’s proposed rates

55

until November 19, 2020. JCP&L filed updates to the requested distribution base rate in both June and July 2020, resulting in JCP&L seeking a total annual distribution base rate increase of approximately $185 million. On October 16, 2020, the parties submitted a stipulation of settlement to the administrative law judge, providing for, among other things, a $94 million annual base distribution revenues increase for JCP&L based on an ROE of 9.6%, which will become effective for customers on November 1, 2021. Until the rates become effective, and starting on January 1, 2021, JCP&L is permitted to amortize an existing regulatory liability totaling approximately $86 million to offset the base rate increase that otherwise would have occurred in this period. The parties also agreed that the actual net gain from the sale of JCP&L’s interest in the Yards Creek pumped-storage hydro generation facility in New Jersey (210 MWs), as further discussed below, shall be applied to reduce JCP&L’s existing regulatory asset for previously deferred storm costs. Lastly, the parties agreed that $95.1 million of Reliability Plus capital investment for projects through December 31, 2020 is included in rate base effective December 31, 2020, with a final prudence review of only those capital investment projects from July 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020 to occur in January 2021. On October 22, 2020, the administrative law judge entered an initial decision adopting the settlement. On October 28, 2020, the NJBPU approved the settlement and directed an upcoming management audit for JCP&L. On January 4, 2021, JCP&L submitted its review of storm costs as required under the stipulation of settlement. On January 15, 2021, JCP&L filed a written report for its Reliability Plus projects placed in service from July 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020, also as required under the stipulation of settlement.

On April 6, 2020, JCP&L signed an asset purchase agreement with Yards Creek Energy, LLC, a subsidiary of LS Power to sell its 50% interest in the Yards Creek pumped-storage hydro generation facility. Subject to terms and conditions of the agreement, the base purchase price is $155 million. On July 31, 2020, FERC approved the transfer of JCP&L’s interest in the hydroelectric operating license. On October 8, 2020, FERC issued an order authorizing the transfer of JCP&L’s ownership interest in the hydroelectric facilities. On October 28, 2020, the NJBPU approved the sale of Yards Creek. Completion of the transaction is subject to several closing conditions; there can be no assurance that all closing conditions will be satisfied or that the transaction will be consummated. JCP&L currently anticipates closing of the transaction to occur during the first quarter of 2021. Assets held for sale on FirstEnergy’s Consolidated Balance Sheets associated with the transaction consist of property, plant and equipment of $45 million, which is included in the regulated distribution segment.

On August 27, 2020, JCP&L filed an AMI Program with the NJBPU, which proposes the deployment of approximately 1.2 million advanced meters over a three-year period beginning on January 1, 2023, at a total cost of approximately $418 million, including the pre-deployment phase. The 3-year deployment is part of the 20-year AMI Program that is expected to cost a total of approximately $732 million and proposes a cost recovery mechanism through a separate AMI tariff rider. On January 13, 2021, a procedural schedule was established, which includes evidentiary hearings the week of May 24, 2021.

On June 10, 2020, the NJBPU issued an order establishing a framework for the filing of utility-run energy efficiency and peak demand reduction programs in accordance with the New Jersey Clean Energy Act. Under the established framework, JCP&L will recover its program investments over a ten year amortization period and its operations and maintenance expenses on an annual basis, be eligible to receive lost revenues on energy savings that resulted from its programs and be eligible for incentives or subject to penalties based on its annual program performance, beginning in the fifth year of its program offerings. On September 25, 2020, JCP&L filed its energy efficiency and peak demand reduction program. JCP&L’s program consists of 11 energy efficiency and peak demand reduction programs and subprograms to be run from July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2024. The program also seeks approval of cost recovery totaling approximately $230 million as well as lost revenues associated with the energy savings resulting from the programs. While a procedural order has been established in this matter, on January 20, 2021, JCP&L filed a letter requesting a suspension of the procedural schedule to allow for settlement discussions. The Clean Energy Act contemplates a final order from the NJBPU by May 2, 2021.

On July 2, 2020, the NJBPU issued an order allowing New Jersey utilities to track and create a regulatory asset for future recovery of all prudently incurred incremental costs arising from the COVID-19 pandemic beginning March 9, 2020 through September 30, 2021, or until the Governor issues an order stating that the COVID-19 pandemic is no longer in effect. New Jersey utilities can request recovery of such regulatory asset in a stand-alone COVID-19 regulatory asset filing or future base rate case. On August 21, 2020, the Governor of New Jersey issued a press release announcing that the New Jersey utilities agreed to extend their voluntary moratorium preventing shutoffs to both residential and commercial customers during the COVID-19 pandemic until October 15, 2020. On October 15, 2020, the Governor issued an Executive Order prohibiting utilities from terminating service to any residential gas, electric, public and private water customer, through March 15, 2021, requiring the reconnection of certain customers, and disallowing the charging of late payment charges or reconnection fees during the public health emergency. On October 28, 2020, the NJBPU issued an order expanding the scope of the proceeding to examine all pandemic issues, including recovery of the COVID-19 regulatory assets, by way of a generic proceeding. On November 30, 2020, JCP&L submitted comments.

The recent credit rating actions taken on October 28, 2020, by S&P and Fitch triggered a requirement from various NJBPU orders that JCP&L file a mitigation plan, which was filed on November 5, 2020, to demonstrate that JCP&L has sufficient liquidity to meet its BGS obligations. On December 11, 2020, the NJBPU held a public hearing on the mitigation plan. Written comments on JCP&L’s mitigation plan were submitted on January 8, 2021.

56

OHIO

The Ohio Companies operate under base distribution rates approved by the PUCO effective in 2009. The Ohio Companies’ residential and commercial base distribution revenues were decoupled, through a mechanism that took effect on February 1, 2020 and under which the Ohio Companies billed customers until February 9, 2021, to the base distribution revenue and lost distribution revenue associated with energy efficiency and peak demand reduction programs recovered as of the twelve-month period ending on December 31, 2018. The Ohio Companies currently operate under ESP IV effective June 1, 2016, and continuing through May 31, 2024, that continues the supply of power to non-shopping customers at a market-based price set through an auction process. ESP IV also continues the DCR rider, which supports continued investment related to the distribution system for the benefit of customers, with increased revenue caps of $20 million per year from June 1, 2019 through May 31, 2022; and $15 million per year from June 1, 2022 through May 31, 2024. In addition, ESP IV includes: (1) continuation of a base distribution rate freeze through May 31, 2024; (2) the collection of lost distribution revenue associated with energy efficiency and peak demand reduction programs, which is discussed further below; (3) a goal across FirstEnergy to reduce CO2 emissions by 90% below 2005 levels by 2045; and (4) contributions, totaling $51 million to: (a) fund energy conservation programs, economic development and job retention in the Ohio Companies’ service territories; (b) establish a fuel-fund in each of the Ohio Companies’ service territories to assist low-income customers; and (c) establish a Customer Advisory Council to ensure preservation and growth of the competitive market in Ohio.

ESP IV further provided for the Ohio Companies to collect through the DMR $132.5 million annually for three years beginning in 2017, grossed up for federal income taxes, resulting in an approved amount of approximately $168 million annually in 2018 and 2019. On appeal, the SCOH, on June 19, 2019, reversed the PUCO’s determination that the DMR is lawful, and remanded the matter to the PUCO with instructions to remove the DMR from ESP IV. The PUCO entered an order directing the Ohio Companies to cease further collection through the DMR, credit back to customers a refund of the DMR funds collected since July 2, 2019 and remove the DMR from ESP IV. On July 15, 2019, OCC filed a Notice of Appeal with the SCOH, challenging the PUCO’s exclusion of the DMR revenues from the determination of the existence of significantly excessive earnings under ESP IV for calendar year 2017 for OE and claiming a $42 million refund is due to OE customers. On December 1, 2020, the SCOH reversed the PUCO’s exclusion of the DMR revenues from the determination of the existence of significantly excessive earnings under ESP IV for OE for calendar year 2017, and remanded the case to the PUCO with instructions to conduct new proceedings which includes the DMR revenues in the analysis, determines the threshold against which the earned return is measured, and makes other necessary determinations. FirstEnergy is unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings but has not deemed a liability probable as of December 31, 2020.

On July 23, 2019, Ohio enacted HB 6, which established support for nuclear energy supply in Ohio. In addition to the provisions supporting nuclear energy, HB 6 included provisions implementing a decoupling mechanism for Ohio electric utilities and ending current energy efficiency program mandates on December 31, 2020, provided that statewide energy efficiency mandates are achieved as determined by the PUCO. On February 26, 2020, the PUCO ordered a wind-down of statutorily required energy efficiency programs to commence on September 30, 2020, that the programs terminate on December 31, 2020, with the Ohio Companies' existing portfolio plans extended through 2020 without changes.

On November 21, 2019, the Ohio Companies applied to the PUCO for approval of a decoupling mechanism, which would set residential and commercial base distribution related revenues at the levels collected in 2018. As such, those base distribution revenues would no longer be based on electric consumption, which allows continued support of energy efficiency initiatives while also providing revenue certainty to the Ohio Companies. On January 15, 2020, the PUCO approved the Ohio Companies’ decoupling application, and the decoupling mechanism took effect on February 1, 2020. Legislation has been introduced in the first quarter of 2021 to, among other things, repeal parts of HB 6, the legislation that established support for nuclear energy supply in Ohio, provided for a decoupling mechanism for Ohio electric utilities, and provided for the ending of current energy efficiency program mandates. As further discussed below, in connection with a partial settlement with the OAG and other parties, the Ohio Companies filed an application with the PUCO on February 1, 2021, to set the respective decoupling riders (Rider CSR) to zero. While the partial settlement with the OAG focused specifically on decoupling, the Ohio Companies will of their own accord not seek to recover lost distribution revenue from residential and commercial customers. FirstEnergy is committed to pursuing an open dialogue with stakeholders in an appropriate manner with respect to the numerous regulatory proceedings currently underway as further discussed herein. As a result of the partial settlement, and the decision to not seek lost distribution revenue, FirstEnergy recognized a $108 million pre-tax charge ($84 million after-tax) in the fourth quarter of 2020, and $77 million (pre-tax) of which is associated with forgoing collection of lost distribution revenue. FirstEnergy does not believe a refund for previously collected amounts under decoupling, which was approximately $18 million, is probable. Furthermore, as FirstEnergy would not have financially benefited from the Clean Air Fund included in HB 6, which is the mechanism to provide support to nuclear energy in Ohio, there is no expected additional impact to FirstEnergy due to any repeal of that provision of HB 6.

On July 17, 2019, the PUCO approved, with no material modifications, a settlement agreement that provides for the implementation of the Ohio Companies’ first phase of grid modernization plans, including the investment of $516 million over three years to modernize the Ohio Companies’ electric distribution system, and for all tax savings associated with the Tax Act to flow back to customers. The settlement had broad support, including PUCO staff, the OCC, representatives of industrial and commercial customers, a low-income advocate, environmental advocates, hospitals, competitive generation suppliers and other parties.

57

In March 2020, the PUCO issued entries directing utilities to review their service disconnection and restoration policies and suspend, for the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, otherwise applicable requirements that may impose a service continuity hardship or service restoration hardship on customers. The Ohio Companies are utilizing their existing approved cost recovery mechanisms where applicable to address the financial impacts of these directives. On July 31, 2020, the Ohio Companies filed with the PUCO their transition plan and requests for waivers to allow for the safe resumption of normal business operations, including service disconnections for non-payment. On September 23, 2020, the PUCO approved the Ohio Companies’ transition plan, including approval of the resumption of service disconnections for non-payment, which the Ohio Companies began on October 5, 2020.

On July 29, 2020, the PUCO consolidated the Ohio Companies’ Applications for determination of the existence of significantly excessive earnings, or SEET, under ESP IV for calendar years 2018 and 2019, which had been previously filed on July 15, 2019, and May 15, 2020, respectively, and set a procedural schedule with evidentiary hearings scheduled for October 29, 2020. The calculations included in the Ohio Companies’ SEET filings for calendar years 2018 and 2019 demonstrate that the Ohio Companies did not have significantly excessive earnings, however, FirstEnergy and the Ohio Companies are unable to predict the PUCO’s ultimate determination of the applications. On August 3, 2020, the OCC filed an interlocutory appeal asking the PUCO to stay the SEET proceeding until the SCOH determines whether DMR should be excluded from the SEET, as further discussed above. Furthermore, on January 21, 2021, Senate Bill 10 was introduced, which would repeal legislation passed in 2019 that permitted the Ohio Companies to file their SEET results on a consolidated basis instead of on an individual company basis. On September 4, 2020, the PUCO opened its quadrennial review of ESP IV, consolidated it with the Ohio Companies’ 2018 and 2019 SEET Applications, and set a procedural schedule for the consolidated matters. On October 29, 2020, the PUCO issued an entry extending the deadline for the Ohio Companies to file quadrennial review of ESP IV testimony to March 1, 2021, with the evidentiary hearings to commence no sooner than May 3, 2021. On January 12, 2021, the PUCO consolidated these matters with the determination of the existence of significantly excessive earnings under ESP IV for calendar year 2017, which the SCOH had remanded to the PUCO.

On September 8, 2020, the OCC filed motions in the Ohio Companies’ corporate separation audit and DMR audit dockets, requesting the PUCO to open an investigation and management audit, hire an independent auditor, and require FirstEnergy to show it did not improperly use money collected from consumers or violate any utility regulatory laws, rules or orders in its activities regarding HB 6. The Ohio Companies’ filed a response in opposition to the OCC’s motions on September 23, 2020. On December 30, 2020, in response to the OCC's motion, the PUCO reopened the DMR audit docket, and directed PUCO staff to solicit a third-party auditor and conduct a full review of the DMR to ensure funds collected from ratepayers through the DMR were only used for the purposes established in ESP IV. Deadlines relating to the selection of the auditor and the issuance of the final audit report have not yet been set.

On September 15, 2020, the PUCO opened a new proceeding to review the political and charitable spending by the Ohio Companies in support of HB 6 and the subsequent referendum effort, directing the Ohio Companies to show cause, demonstrating that the costs of any political or charitable spending in support of HB 6, or the subsequent referendum effort, were not included, directly or indirectly, in any rates or charges paid by ratepayers. The Ohio Companies filed a response on September 30, 2020, stating that any political and charitable spending in support of HB 6 or the subsequent referendum were not included in rates or charges paid for by its customers. Several parties requested that the PUCO broaden the scope of the review of political and charitable spending.

In connection with an on-going audit of the Ohio Companies’ policies and procedures relating to the code of conduct rules between affiliates, on November 4, 2020, the PUCO initiated an additional corporate separation audit as a result of the FirstEnergy leadership transition announcement made on October 29, 2020, as further discussed below. The additional audit is to ensure compliance by the Ohio Companies and their affiliates with corporate separation laws and the Ohio Companies’ corporate separation plan. The additional audit is for the period from November 2016 through October 2020, with a final audit report to be filed in June 2021. On January 27, 2021, the PUCO selected an auditor.

On November 24, 2020, the Environmental Law and Policy Center filed motions to vacate the PUCO’s orders in proceedings related to the Ohio Companies’ settlement that provides for the implementation of the first phase of grid modernization plans and for all tax savings associated with the Tax Act to flow back to customers, the Ohio Companies’ energy efficiency portfolio plans for the period from 2013 through 2016, and the Ohio Companies’ application for a two-year extension of the DMR, on the grounds that the former Chairman of the PUCO should have recused himself in these matters. On December 30, 2020, the PUCO denied the motions, and reinstated the requirement under ESP IV that the Ohio Companies file a base distribution rate case by May 31, 2024, the end of ESP IV, which the Ohio Companies had indicated they would not oppose.

In the fourth quarter of 2020, motions were filed with the PUCO requesting that the PUCO amend the Ohio Companies’ riders for collecting charges required by HB 6, which the Ohio Companies are further required to remit to other Ohio electric distribution utilities or to the State Treasurer, to provide for refunds in the event HB 6 is repealed. The Ohio Companies contested the motions, which are pending before the PUCO.

58

On December 7, 2020, the Citizens’ Utility Board of Ohio filed a complaint with the PUCO against the Ohio Companies. The complaint alleges that the Ohio Companies’ new charges resulting from HB 6, and any increased rates resulting from proceedings over which the former PUCO Chairman presided, are unjust and unreasonable, and that the Ohio Companies violated Ohio corporate separation laws by failing to operate separately from unregulated affiliates. The complaint requests, among other things, that any rates authorized by HB 6 or authorized by the PUCO in a proceeding over which the former Chairman presided be made refundable; that the Ohio Companies be required to file a new distribution rate case at the earliest possible date; and that the Ohio Companies’ corporate separation plans be modified to introduce institutional controls. The Ohio Companies are contesting the complaint.

On December 9, 2020, the Ohio Manufacturers’ Association Energy Group filed an appeal to the SCOH challenging the PUCO’s generic order directing the form of rider all Ohio electric distribution utilities must charge to recover the costs of the HB 6 Clean Air Fund. The appeal contends that the PUCO erred in adopting the rate design for the riders, in establishing the riders during ongoing proceedings and investigations related to HB 6, and in not requiring electric distribution utilities to include refund language in the rider tariffs. On December 30, 2020, the PUCO vacated its generic order establishing the Clean Air Fund riders, as required by a preliminary injunction issued by the Court of Common Pleas of Franklin County, Ohio. On January 11, 2021, the SCOH granted a joint application of the Ohio Manufacturers' Association Energy Group and the PUCO and dismissed the appeal.

See “Outlook - Other Legal Proceedings” below for additional details on the government investigation and subsequent litigation surrounding the investigation of HB 6.

PENNSYLVANIA

The Pennsylvania Companies operate under rates approved by the PPUC, effective as of January 27, 2017. These rates were adjusted for the net impact of the Tax Act, effective March 15, 2018. The net impact of the Tax Act for the period January 1, 2018 through March 14, 2018 was separately tracked and its treatment will be addressed in a future rate proceeding. The Pennsylvania Companies operate under DSPs for the June 1, 2019 through May 31, 2023 delivery period, which provide for the competitive procurement of generation supply for customers who do not choose an alternative EGS or for customers of alternative EGSs that fail to provide the contracted service. Under the 2019-2023 DSPs, supply will be provided by wholesale suppliers through a mix of 3, 12 and 24-month energy contracts, as well as two RFPs for 2-year SREC contracts for ME, PN and Penn.

Pursuant to Pennsylvania Act 129 of 2008 and PPUC orders, Pennsylvania EDCs implement energy efficiency and peak demand reduction programs. The Pennsylvania Companies’ Phase III EE&C plans for the June 2016 through May 2021 period, which were approved in March 2016, with expected costs up to $390 million, are designed to achieve the targets established in the PPUC’s Phase III Final Implementation Order with full recovery through the reconcilable EE&C riders. On June 18, 2020, the PPUC entered a Final Implementation Order for a Phase IV EE&C Plan, operating from June 2021 through May 2026. The Final Implementation Order set demand reduction targets, relative to 2007 to 2008 peak demands, at 2.9% MW for ME, 3.3% MW for PN, 2.0% MW for Penn, and 2.5% MW for WP; and energy consumption reduction targets, as a percentage of the Pennsylvania Companies’ historic 2009 to 2010 reference load at 3.1% MWH for ME, 3.0% MWH for PN, 2.7% MWH for Penn, and 2.4% MWH for WP. The Pennsylvania Companies’ Phase IV plans were filed November 30, 2020. A settlement has been reached in this matter, and a joint petition seeking approval of that settlement by the parties was filed on February 16, 2021. A PPUC decision on the settlement is expected in March 2021.

Pennsylvania EDCs may file with the PPUC for approval of an LTIIP for infrastructure improvements and costs related to highway relocation projects, after which a DSIC may be approved to recover LTIIP costs. On August 30, 2019, the Pennsylvania Companies filed Petitions for approval of new LTIIPs for the five-year period beginning January 1, 2020 and ending December 31, 2024 for a total capital investment of approximately $572 million for certain infrastructure improvement initiatives. On January 16, 2020, the PPUC approved the LTIIPs without modification. The Pennsylvania Companies’ approved DSIC riders for quarterly cost recovery went into effect July 1, 2016. On August 30, 2019, Penn filed a Petition seeking approval of a waiver of the statutory DSIC cap of 5% of distribution rate revenue and approval to increase the maximum allowable DSIC to 11.81% of distribution rate revenue for the five-year period of its proposed LTIIP. On March 12, 2020, an order was entered approving a settlement by all parties to that case which provides for a temporary increase in the recoverability cap from 5% to 7.5%, to expire on the earlier of the effective date of new base rates following Penn’s next base rate case or the expiration of its LTIIP II program.

Following the Pennsylvania Companies’ 2016 base rate proceedings, the PPUC ruled in a separate proceeding related to the DSIC mechanisms that the Pennsylvania Companies were not required to reflect federal and state income tax deductions related to DSIC-eligible property in DSIC rates, which decision was appealed by the Pennsylvania OCA to the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court. The Commonwealth Court reversed the PPUC’s decision and remanded the matter to require the Pennsylvania Companies to revise their tariffs and DSIC calculations to include ADIT and state income taxes. On April 7, 2020, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court issued an order granting Petitions for Allowance of Appeal by both the PPUC and the Pennsylvania Companies of the Commonwealth Court’s Opinion and Order. Briefs and Reply Briefs of the parties were filed, and oral argument before the Supreme Court was held on October 21, 2020. An adverse ruling by the Pennsylvania Supreme Court is not expected to result in a material impact to FirstEnergy.

59

The PPUC issued an order on March 13, 2020, forbidding utilities from terminating service for non-payment for the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. On May 13, 2020, the PPUC issued a Secretarial letter directing utilities to track all prudently incurred incremental costs arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, and to create a regulatory asset for future recovery of incremental uncollectibles incurred as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and termination moratorium. On October 13, 2020, the PPUC entered an order lifting the service termination moratorium effective November 9, 2020, subject to certain additional notification, payment procedures and exceptions, and permits the Pennsylvania Companies to create a regulatory asset for all incremental expenses associated with their compliance with the order.

WEST VIRGINIA

MP and PE provide electric service to all customers through traditional cost-based, regulated utility ratemaking and operate under rates approved by the WVPSC effective February 2015. MP and PE recover net power supply costs, including fuel costs, purchased power costs and related expenses, net of related market sales revenue through the ENEC. MP's and PE's ENEC rate is updated annually.

On March 13, 2020, the WVPSC urged all utilities to suspend utility service terminations except where necessary as a matter of safety or where requested by the customer. On May 15, 2020, the WVPSC issued an order to authorize MP and PE to record a deferral of additional, extraordinary costs directly related to complying with the various COVID-19 government shut-down orders and operational precautions, including impacts on uncollectible expense and cash flow related to temporary discontinuance of service terminations for non-payment and any credits to minimum demand charges associated with business customers adversely impacted by shut-downs or temporary closures related to the pandemic. MP and PE resumed disconnection activity for commercial and industrial customers on September 15, 2020, and for residential customers on November 4, 2020.

On August 28, 2020, MP and PE filed with the WVPSC their annual ENEC case requesting a decrease in ENEC rates of $55 million beginning January 1, 2021, representing a 4% decrease in rates compared to those in effect on August 28, 2020. The decrease in the ENEC rates is net of recovering approximately $10.5 million in previously deferred, incremental uncollectible and other related costs resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. The WVPSC approved a unanimous settlement by the parties on December 16, 2020 with rates effective January 1, 2021.

Also, on August 28, 2020, MP and PE filed with the WVPSC for recovery of costs associated with modernization and improvement program for their coal-fired boilers. The proposed annual revenue increase for these environmental compliance projects is $5 million beginning January 1, 2021. The WVPSC approved a unanimous settlement by the parties on December 16, 2020 approving the recovery of those costs.

On December 30, 2020, MP and PE filed an integrated resource plan with the WVPSC. The plan projects a small capacity deficit but an energy surplus in MP’s and PE’s supply resources when compared with current WV load demand and projects the capacity deficit growing over the next 15 years. The plan does not recommend additional supply-side resources with a possible exception for small utility-scale solar resources and recommends that the capacity deficit be met through the PJM capacity market. MP currently expects to seek approval in 2021 to construct solar generation sources of up to 50 MWs.

On December 30, 2020, MP and PE filed with the WVPSC a determination of the rate impact of the Tax Act with respect to ADIT. The filing proposes an annual revenue reduction of $2.6 million annually, effective January 1, 2022, with reconciliation and any resulting adjustments incorporated into the annual ENEC proceedings.

FERC REGULATORY MATTERS

Under the FPA, FERC regulates rates for interstate wholesale sales, transmission of electric power, accounting and other matters, including construction and operation of hydroelectric projects. With respect to their wholesale services and rates, the Utilities, AE Supply and the Transmission Companies are subject to regulation by FERC. FERC regulations require JCP&L, MP, PE, WP and the Transmission Companies to provide open access transmission service at FERC-approved rates, terms and conditions. Transmission facilities of JCP&L, MP, PE, WP and the Transmission Companies are subject to functional control by PJM and transmission service using their transmission facilities is provided by PJM under the PJM Tariff.

60

The following table summarizes the key terms of rate orders in effect for transmission customer billings for FirstEnergy's transmission owner entities:

------- -------------------- ----------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Company Rates Effective Capital Structure Allowed ROE
ATSI January 1, 2015 Actual (13-month average) 10.38%
JCP&L January 2020(1) Actual (13-month average)(1) 10.80%(1)
MP March 21, 2018(2)(4) Settled(2)(3) Settled(2)(3)
PE March 21, 2018(2)(4) Settled(2)(3) Settled(2)(3)
WP March 21, 2018(2)(4) Settled(2)(3) Settled(2)(3)
MAIT July 1, 2017 Lower of Actual (13-month average) or 60% 10.3%
TrAIL July 1, 2008 Actual (year-end) 12.7% (TrAIL the Line & Black Oak SVC)11.7% (All other projects)

(1) As filed in docket ER20-227, effective on January 1, 2020, which has been accepted by FERC, subject to refund, pending further hearing and settlement procedures. The settlement agreement that was filed on February 2, 2021, seeking approval by FERC sets JCP&L's Allowed ROE at 10.2%.
(2) Effective on January 1, 2021, MP, PE, and WP have implemented a forward-looking formula rate, which has been accepted by FERC, subject to refund, pending further hearing and settlement procedures.
(3) FERC-approved settlement agreements did not specify.
(4) See FERC Actions on Tax Act below.

FERC regulates the sale of power for resale in interstate commerce in part by granting authority to public utilities to sell wholesale power at market-based rates upon showing that the seller cannot exert market power in generation or transmission or erect barriers to entry into markets. The Utilities and AE Supply each have been authorized by FERC to sell wholesale power in interstate commerce at market-based rates and have a market-based rate tariff on file with FERC, although in the case of the Utilities major wholesale purchases remain subject to review and regulation by the relevant state commissions.

Federally enforceable mandatory reliability standards apply to the bulk electric system and impose certain operating, record-keeping and reporting requirements on the Utilities, AE Supply, and the Transmission Companies. NERC is the ERO designated by FERC to establish and enforce these reliability standards, although NERC has delegated day-to-day implementation and enforcement of these reliability standards to six regional entities, including RFC. All of the facilities that FirstEnergy operates are located within the RFC region. FirstEnergy actively participates in the NERC and RFC stakeholder processes, and otherwise monitors and manages its companies in response to the ongoing development, implementation and enforcement of the reliability standards implemented and enforced by RFC.

FirstEnergy believes that it is in material compliance with all currently effective and enforceable reliability standards. Nevertheless, in the course of operating its extensive electric utility systems and facilities, FirstEnergy occasionally learns of isolated facts or circumstances that could be interpreted as excursions from the reliability standards. If and when such occurrences are found, FirstEnergy develops information about the occurrence and develops a remedial response to the specific circumstances, including in appropriate cases “self-reporting” an occurrence to RFC. Moreover, it is clear that NERC, RFC and FERC will continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as to develop and adopt new reliability standards. Any inability on FirstEnergy's part to comply with the reliability standards for its bulk electric system could result in the imposition of financial penalties, or obligations to upgrade or build transmission facilities, that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

ATSI Transmission Formula Rate

On May 1, 2020, ATSI filed amendments to its formula rate to recover regulatory assets for certain costs that ATSI incurred as a result of its 2011 move from MISO to PJM, certain costs allocated to ATSI by FERC for transmission projects that were constructed by other MISO transmission owners, certain income tax-related adjustments, including, but not limited to impacts from the Tax Act discussed further below, and certain costs for transmission-related vegetation management programs. The amount on FirstEnergy’s Consolidated Balance Sheet for these regulatory assets was approximately $79 million and $73 million, as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. Per prior FERC orders, ATSI included a “cost-benefit study” to support recovery of ATSI’s costs to move to PJM, and the MISO transmission project costs that were allocated to ATSI. Certain intervenors filed protests of the formula rate amendments on May 29, 2020, and ATSI filed a reply on June 15, 2020. On June 30, 2020, FERC issued an initial order accepting the tariff amendments subject to refund, suspending the effective date for five months to be effective December 1, 2020, and setting the matter for hearing and settlement proceedings. ATSI is engaged in settlement negotiations with the other parties to the formula rate amendments proceeding.

61

FERC Actions on Tax Act

On March 15, 2018, FERC initiated proceedings on the question of how to address possible changes to ADIT and bonus depreciation as a result of the Tax Act. Such possible changes could impact FERC-jurisdictional rates, including transmission rates. On November 21, 2019, FERC issued a final rule (Order No. 864). Order No. 864 requires utilities with transmission formula rates to update their formula rate templates to include mechanisms to (i) deduct any excess ADIT from or add any deficient ADIT to their rate base; (ii) raise or lower their income tax allowances by any amortized excess or deficient ADIT; and (iii) incorporate a new permanent worksheet into their rates that will annually track information related to excess or deficient ADIT. Per FERC directives, ATSI submitted its compliance filing on May 1, 2020. MAIT submitted its compliance filing on June 1, 2020. Certain intervenors filed protests of the compliance filings, to which ATSI and MAIT responded. On October 28, 2020, FERC staff requested additional information about ATSI’s proposed rate base adjustment mechanism, and ATSI submitted the requested information on November 25, 2020. On May 15, 2020, TrAIL submitted its compliance filing and on June 1, 2020, PATH submitted its required compliance filing. These compliance filings each remain pending before FERC. MP, WP and PE (as holders of a “stated” transmission rate) are addressing these requirements in the transmission formula rates amendments that were filed on October 29, 2020. JCP&L is addressing these requirements as part of its pending transmission formula rate case.

Transmission ROE Methodology

FERC’s methodology for calculating electric transmission utility ROE has been in transition as a result of an April 14, 2017 ruling by the D.C. Circuit that vacated FERC’s then-effective methodology. On May 21, 2020, FERC issued Opinion No. 569-A that changed FERC’s ROE methodology. Under this methodology FERC established an ROE that is based on three financial models – discounted cash flow, capital-asset pricing, and risk premium – to calculate a composite zone of reasonableness. FERC noted that utilities could, in utility-specific proceedings, ask to have the expected earnings methodology included in calculating the utility’s authorized ROE. FERC also noted that, going forward, it will divide that zone into three equal parts, to be used for high risk, normal risk, and low risk utilities. A given utility will be assigned to one of these three parts of the zone of reasonableness, and its ROE will be set at the median or midpoint of the other utilities that are in the applicable third of the zone. FirstEnergy filed a request for rehearing, which FERC denied on July 22, 2020. On November 19, 2020, FERC issued Opinion No. 569-B, which affirmed the Opinion No. 569-A rulings. FirstEnergy initiated, but subsequently withdrew, appeals of these orders. Appeals of Opinion Nos. 569, 569-A and 569-B are pending before the D.C. Circuit. Any changes to FERC’s transmission rate ROE and incentive policies would be applied on a prospective basis.

On March 20, 2020, FERC initiated a rulemaking proceeding on the transmission rate incentives provisions of Section 219 of the 2005 Energy Policy Act. Initial comments were submitted July 1, 2020, and reply comments were filed on July 16, 2020. FirstEnergy participated through EEI and through a consortium of PJM Transmission Owners. This proceeding is pending before FERC.

JCP&L Transmission Formula Rate

On October 30, 2019, JCP&L filed tariff amendments with FERC to convert JCP&L’s existing stated transmission rate to a forward-looking formula transmission rate. JCP&L requested that the tariff amendments become effective January 1, 2020. On December 19, 2019, FERC issued its initial order in the case, allowing JCP&L to transition to a forward-looking formula rate as of January 1, 2020 as requested, subject to refund, pending further hearing and settlement proceedings. JCP&L and the parties to the FERC proceeding subsequently were able to reach settlement, and on February 2, 2021, a settlement agreement was filed for approval by FERC.

Allegheny Power Zone Transmission Formula Rate Filings

On October 29, 2020, MP, PE and WP filed tariff amendments with FERC to convert their existing stated transmission rate to a forward-looking formula transmission rate, effective January 1, 2021. In addition, on October 30, 2020, KATCo filed a proposed new tariff to establish a forward-looking formula rate and requested that the new rate become effective January 1, 2021. In its filing, KATCo explained that while it currently owns no transmission assets, it may build new transmission facilities in the Allegheny zone, and that it may seek required state and federal authorizations to acquire transmission assets from PE and WP by January 1, 2022. These transmission rate filings were approved by FERC on December 31, 2020, subject to refund, pending further hearing and settlement proceedings. MP, PE and WP, and KATCo are engaged in settlement negotiations with the other parties to the formula rate proceedings. KATCo will be included in the Regulated Transmission reportable segment.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Various federal, state and local authorities regulate FirstEnergy with regard to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal, and other environmental matters. While FirstEnergy's environmental policies and procedures are designed to achieve compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, such laws and regulations are subject to periodic review and potential revision by the implementing agencies. FirstEnergy cannot predict the timing or ultimate outcome of any of these reviews or how any future actions taken as a result thereof may materially impact its business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

62

Clean Air Act

FirstEnergy complies with SO2 and NOx emission reduction requirements under the CAA and SIP(s) by burning lower-sulfur fuel, utilizing combustion controls and post-combustion controls and/or using emission allowances.

CSAPR requires reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions in two phases (2015 and 2017), ultimately capping SO2 emissions in affected states to 2.4 million tons annually and NOx emissions to 1.2 million tons annually. CSAPR allows trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances between power plants located in the same state and interstate trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances with some restrictions. The D.C. Circuit ordered the EPA on July 28, 2015, to reconsider the CSAPR caps on NOx and SO2 emissions from power plants in 13 states, including West Virginia. This follows the 2014 U.S. Supreme Court ruling generally upholding the EPA’s regulatory approach under CSAPR but questioning whether the EPA required upwind states to reduce emissions by more than their contribution to air pollution in downwind states. The EPA issued a CSAPR update rule on September 7, 2016, reducing summertime NOx emissions from power plants in 22 states in the eastern U.S., including West Virginia, beginning in 2017. Various states and other stakeholders appealed the CSAPR update rule to the D.C. Circuit in November and December 2016. On September 13, 2019, the D.C. Circuit remanded the CSAPR update rule to the EPA citing that the rule did not eliminate upwind states’ significant contributions to downwind states’ air quality attainment requirements within applicable attainment deadlines. Depending on the outcome of the appeals, the EPA’s reconsideration of the CSAPR update rule and how the EPA and the states ultimately implement CSAPR, the future cost of compliance may materially impact FirstEnergy's operations, cash flows and financial condition.

In February 2019, the EPA announced its final decision to retain without changes the NAAQS for SO2, specifically retaining the 2010 primary (health-based) 1-hour standard of 75 PPB. As of December 31, 2020, FirstEnergy has no power plants operating in areas designated as non-attainment by the EPA.

In March 2018, the State of New York filed a CAA Section 126 petition with the EPA alleging that NOx emissions from nine states (including West Virginia) significantly contribute to New York’s inability to attain the ozone NAAQS. The petition seeks suitable emission rate limits for large stationary sources that are affecting New York’s air quality within the three years allowed by CAA Section 126. On September 20, 2019, the EPA denied New York’s CAA Section 126 petition. On October 29, 2019, the State of New York appealed the denial of its petition to the D.C. Circuit. On July 14, 2020, the D.C. Circuit reversed and remanded the New York petition to the EPA for further consideration. FirstEnergy is unable to predict the outcome of these matters or estimate the loss or range of loss.

Climate Change

There are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions at the state, federal and international level. Certain northeastern states are participating in the RGGI and western states led by California, have implemented programs, primarily cap and trade mechanisms, to control emissions of certain GHGs. Additional policies reducing GHG emissions, such as demand reduction programs, renewable portfolio standards and renewable subsidies have been implemented across the nation.

At the international level, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change resulted in the Kyoto Protocol requiring participating countries, which does not include the U.S., to reduce GHGs commencing in 2008 and has been extended through 2020. The Obama Administration submitted in March 2015, a formal pledge for the U.S. to reduce its economy wide GHG emissions by 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. In 2015, FirstEnergy set a goal of reducing company-wide CO2 emissions by at least 90 percent below 2005 levels by 2045. As of December 31, 2018, FirstEnergy has reduced its CO2 emissions by approximately 62 percent. In September 2016, the U.S. joined in adopting the agreement reached on December 12, 2015, at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change meetings in Paris. The Paris Agreement’s non-binding obligations to limit global warming to below two degrees Celsius became effective on November 4, 2016. On June 1, 2017, the Trump Administration announced that the U.S. would cease all participation in the Paris Agreement. On January 20, 2021, President Biden signed an executive order re-adopting the agreement on behalf of the U.S. FirstEnergy cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies, although potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO2 emissions, or litigation alleging damages from GHG emissions, could require material capital and other expenditures or result in changes to its operations.

In December 2009, the EPA released its final “Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for GHG under the Clean Air Act,” concluding that concentrations of several key GHGs constitutes an "endangerment" and may be regulated as "air pollutants" under the CAA and mandated measurement and reporting of GHG emissions from certain sources, including electric generating plants. The EPA released its final CPP regulations in August 2015 to reduce CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel fired EGUs and finalized separate regulations imposing CO2 emission limits for new, modified, and reconstructed fossil fuel fired EGUs. Numerous states and private parties filed appeals and motions to stay the CPP with the D.C. Circuit in October 2015. On February 9, 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court stayed the rule during the pendency of the challenges to the D.C. Circuit and U.S. Supreme Court. On March 28, 2017, an executive order, entitled “Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth,” instructed the EPA to review the CPP and related rules addressing GHG emissions and suspend, revise or rescind the rules if appropriate. On October 16, 2017, the EPA issued a proposed rule to repeal the CPP. On June 19, 2019, the EPA repealed the CPP and replaced it with the ACE rule that establishes guidelines for states to develop standards of performance to address GHG emissions from existing coal-fired power plants. On January 19, 2021, the D.C. Circuit remanded the ACE rule declaring

63

that the EPA was “arbitrary and capricious” in its rule making, as such, the ACE rule is no longer in effect and all actions thus far taken by States to implement the federally mandated rule are now null and void. The D.C. Circuit decision is subject to legal challenge. Depending on the outcomes of further appeals and how any final rules are ultimately implemented, the future cost of compliance may be material.

Clean Water Act

Various water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal CWA and its amendments, apply to FirstEnergy's facilities. In addition, the states in which FirstEnergy operates have water quality standards applicable to FirstEnergy's operations.

The EPA finalized CWA Section 316(b) regulations in May 2014, requiring cooling water intake structures with an intake velocity greater than 0.5 feet per second to reduce fish impingement when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system to a 12% annual average and requiring cooling water intake structures exceeding 125 million gallons per day to conduct studies to determine site-specific controls, if any, to reduce entrainment, which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facility's cooling water system. Depending on any final action taken by the states with respect to impingement and entrainment, the future capital costs of compliance with these standards may be material.

On September 30, 2015, the EPA finalized new, more stringent effluent limits for the Steam Electric Power Generating category (40 CFR Part 423) for arsenic, mercury, selenium and nitrogen for wastewater from wet scrubber systems and zero discharge of pollutants in ash transport water. The treatment obligations were to phase-in as permits are renewed on a five-year cycle from 2018 to 2023. However, on April 13, 2017, the EPA granted a Petition for Reconsideration and on September 18, 2017, the EPA postponed certain compliance deadlines for two years. On August 31, 2020, the EPA issued a final rule revising the effluent limits for discharges from wet scrubber systems, retaining the zero-discharge standard for ash transport water, (with some limited discharge allowances), and extending the deadline for compliance to December 31, 2025 for both. In addition, the EPA allows for less stringent limits for sub-categories of generating units based on capacity utilization, flow volume from the scrubber system, and unit retirement date. Depending on the outcome of appeals, how final rules are ultimately implemented and the compliance options MP elects to take with the new rules, the compliance with these standards, which could include capital expenditures at the Ft. Martin and Harrison power stations, may be substantial and changes to MP’s operations at those power stations may also result.

On September 29, 2016, FirstEnergy received a request from the EPA for information pursuant to CWA Section 308(a) for information concerning boron exceedances of effluent limitations established in the NPDES Permit for the former Mitchell Power Station’s Mingo landfill, owned by WP. On November 1, 2016, WP provided an initial response that contained information related to a similar boron issue at the former Springdale Power Station’s landfill. The EPA requested additional information regarding the Springdale landfill and on November 15, 2016, WP provided a response and intends to fully comply with the Section 308(a) information request. On March 3, 2017, WP proposed to the PA DEP a re-route of its wastewater discharge to eliminate potential boron exceedances at the Springdale landfill. On January 29, 2018, WP submitted an NPDES permit renewal application to PA DEP proposing to re-route its wastewater discharge to eliminate potential boron exceedances at the Mingo landfill. On February 20, 2018, the DOJ issued a letter and tolling agreement on behalf of the EPA alleging violations of the CWA at the Springdale and Mingo landfills while seeking to enter settlement negotiations in lieu of filing a complaint. The EPA has proposed a penalty of $900,000 to settle alleged past boron exceedances at both facilities. Negotiations are continuing and WP is unable to predict the outcome of this matter.

Regulation of Waste Disposal

Federal and state hazardous waste regulations have been promulgated as a result of the RCRA, as amended, and the Toxic Substances Control Act. Certain CCRs, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste disposal requirements pending the EPA's evaluation of the need for future regulation.

In April 2015, the EPA finalized regulations for the disposal of CCRs (non-hazardous), establishing national standards for landfill design, structural integrity design and assessment criteria for surface impoundments, groundwater monitoring and protection procedures and other operational and reporting procedures to assure the safe disposal of CCRs from electric generating plants. On September 13, 2017, the EPA announced that it would reconsider certain provisions of the final regulations. On July 17, 2018, the EPA Administrator signed a final rule extending the deadline for certain CCR facilities to cease disposal and commence closure activities, as well as, establishing less stringent groundwater monitoring and protection requirements. On August 21, 2018, the D.C. Circuit remanded sections of the CCR Rule to the EPA to provide additional safeguards for unlined CCR impoundments that are more protective of human health and the environment. On December 2, 2019, the EPA published a proposed rule accelerating the date that certain CCR impoundments must cease accepting waste and initiate closure to August 31, 2020. The proposed rule allows for an extension of the closure deadline based on meeting proscribed site-specific criteria. On July 29, 2020, the EPA published a final rule revising the date that certain CCR impoundments must cease accepting waste and initiate closure to April 11, 2021. The final rule allows for an extension of the closure deadline based on meeting proscribed site-specific criteria. On November 30, 2020, AE Supply submitted a closure deadline extension request to the EPA seeking to extend the closure date until 2024 of McElroy's Run CCR impoundment facility, for which AE Supply continues to provide access to FG.

64

FE or its subsidiaries have been named as potentially responsible parties at waste disposal sites, which may require cleanup under the CERCLA. Allegations of disposal of hazardous substances at historical sites and the liability involved are often unsubstantiated and subject to dispute; however, federal law provides that all potentially responsible parties for a particular site may be liable on a joint and several basis. Environmental liabilities that are considered probable have been recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2020, based on estimates of the total costs of cleanup, FirstEnergy's proportionate responsibility for such costs and the financial ability of other unaffiliated entities to pay. Total liabilities of approximately $107 million have been accrued through December 31, 2020. Included in the total are accrued liabilities of approximately $67 million for environmental remediation of former MGP and gas holder facilities in New Jersey, which are being recovered by JCP&L through a non-bypassable SBC. FE or its subsidiaries could be found potentially responsible for additional amounts or additional sites, but the loss or range of losses cannot be determined or reasonably estimated at this time.

OTHER LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

United States v. Larry Householder, et al.

On July 21, 2020, a complaint and supporting affidavit containing federal criminal allegations were unsealed against the now former Ohio House Speaker Larry Householder and other individuals and entities allegedly affiliated with Mr. Householder. Also, on July 21, 2020, and in connection with the investigation, FirstEnergy received subpoenas for records from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the S.D. Ohio. FirstEnergy was not aware of the criminal allegations, affidavit or subpoenas before July 21, 2020. No contingency has been reflected in FirstEnergy’s consolidated financial statements as a loss is neither probable, nor is a loss or range of a loss reasonably estimable.

Legal Proceedings Relating to United States v. Larry Householder, et al.

In addition to the subpoenas referenced above under “—United States v. Larry Householder, et. al.”, certain FE stockholders and FirstEnergy customers filed several lawsuits against FirstEnergy and certain current and former directors, officers and other employees, and the complaints in each of these suits is related to allegations in the complaint and supporting affidavit relating to HB 6 and the now former Ohio House Speaker Larry Householder and other individuals and entities allegedly affiliated with Mr. Householder.

•Owens v. FirstEnergy Corp. et al. and Frand v. FirstEnergy Corp. et al. (Federal District Court, S.D. Ohio); on July 28, 2020 and August 21, 2020, purported stockholders of FE filed putative class action lawsuits against FE and certain FE officers, purportedly on behalf of all purchasers of FE common stock from February 21, 2017 through July 21, 2020, asserting claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, alleging misrepresentations or omissions by FirstEnergy concerning its business and results of operations. These actions have been consolidated and a lead plaintiff has been appointed by the court.
•Gendrich v. Anderson, et al. and Sloan v. Anderson, et al. (Common Pleas Court, Summit County, OH); on July 26, 2020 and July 31, 2020, respectively, purported stockholders of FE filed shareholder derivative action lawsuits against certain FE directors and officers, alleging, among other things, breaches of fiduciary duty. These actions have been consolidated.
•Miller v. Anderson, et al. (Federal District Court, N.D. Ohio); Bloom, et al. v. Anderson, et al.; Employees Retirement System of the City of St. Louis v. Jones, et al.; Electrical Workers Pension Fund, Local 103, I.B.E.W. v. Anderson et al.; Massachusetts Laborers Pension Fund v. Anderson et al.; The City of Philadelphia Board of Pensions and Retirement v. Anderson et al.; Atherton v. Dowling et al; Behar v. Anderson, et al. (U.S. District Court, S.D. Ohio, all actions have been consolidated); beginning on August 7, 2020, purported stockholders of FE filed shareholder derivative actions alleging the board and officers breached their fiduciary duties and committed violations of Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The cases in the Southern District of Ohio have been consolidated and co-lead plaintiffs have been appointed by the court.
•Smith v. FirstEnergy Corp. et al., Buldas v. FirstEnergy Corp. et al., and Hudock and Cameo Countertops, Inc. v. FirstEnergy Corp. et al. (Federal District Court, S.D. Ohio); on July 27, 2020, July 31, 2020, and August 5, 2020, respectively, purported customers of FirstEnergy filed putative class action lawsuits against FE and FESC, as well as certain current and former FirstEnergy officers, alleging civil Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act violations and related state law claims. These actions have been consolidated.
•State of Ohio ex rel. Dave Yost, Ohio Attorney General v. FirstEnergy Corp., et al. and City of Cincinnati and City of Columbus v. FirstEnergy Corp. (Common Pleas Court, Franklin County, OH); on September 23, 2020 and October 27, 2020, the OAG and the cities of Cincinnati and Columbus, respectively, filed complaints against several parties including FE, each alleging civil violations of the Ohio Corrupt Activity Act in connection with the passage of HB 6. The OAG sought a preliminary injunction to prevent each of the defendants, including FE, through the end of 2020, from: (i) contributing to any groups whose purpose is to keep or modify HB 6; (ii) making any public statements for or against any repeal or modification legislation concerning HB 6; (iii) lobbying, consulting, or advising on these matters; or (iv) contributing to any Ohio legislative candidates. The court denied the OAG’s request for preliminary injunctive relief on October 2, 2020. On January 13, 2021, the OAG filed a motion for a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction against FirstEnergy seeking to enjoin FirstEnergy from collecting the Ohio Companies' decoupling rider. On January 31, 2021, FE reached a partial settlement with the OAG and the cities of Cincinnati and Columbus with respect

65

to the temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction request and related issues. In connection with the partial settlement, the Ohio Companies filed an application on February 1, 2021, with the PUCO to set their respective decoupling riders (Rider CSR) to zero. On February 2, 2021, the PUCO approved the application of the Ohio Companies setting the rider to zero and no additional customer bills will include new decoupling rider charges after February 8, 2021. The cities of Dayton and Toledo have also been added as plaintiffs to the action. These actions have been consolidated.
•Emmons v. FirstEnergy Corp. et al. (Common Pleas Court, Cuyahoga County, OH); on August 4, 2020, a purported customer of FirstEnergy filed a putative class action lawsuit against FE, FESC, OE, TE and CEI, along with FES, alleging several causes of action, including negligence and/or gross negligence, breach of contract, unjust enrichment, and unfair or deceptive consumer acts or practices. On October 1, 2020, plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint, adding as a plaintiff a purported customer of FirstEnergy and alleging a civil violation of the Ohio Corrupt Activity Act and civil conspiracy against FE, FESC and FES.

The plaintiffs in each of the above cases, seek, among other things, to recover an unspecified amount of damages (unless otherwise noted). In addition, on August 10, 2020, the SEC, through its Division of Enforcement, issued an order directing an investigation of possible securities laws violations by FE, and on September 1, 2020, issued subpoenas to FE and certain FE officers. Further, on January 26, 2021, staff of FERC's Division of Investigations issued a letter directing FirstEnergy to preserve and maintain all documents and information related to an ongoing audit being conducted by FERC's Division of Audits and Accounting, including activities related to lobbying and governmental affairs activities concerning HB 6. The outcome of any of these lawsuits, investigations and audit are uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on FE’s or its subsidiaries’ financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. No contingency has been reflected in FirstEnergy’s consolidated financial statements as a loss is neither probable, nor is a loss or range of a loss reasonably estimable.

Internal Investigation Relating to United States v. Larry Householder, et al.

As previously disclosed, a committee of independent members of the Board of Directors is directing an internal investigation related to ongoing government investigations. In connection with FirstEnergy’s internal investigation, such committee determined on October 29, 2020, to terminate FirstEnergy’s Chief Executive Officer, Charles E. Jones, together with two other executives: Dennis M. Chack, Senior Vice President of Product Development, Marketing, and Branding; and Michael J. Dowling, Senior Vice President of External Affairs. Each of these terminated executives violated certain FirstEnergy policies and its code of conduct. These executives were terminated as of October 29, 2020. Such former members of senior management did not maintain and promote a control environment with an appropriate tone of compliance in certain areas of FirstEnergy’s business, nor sufficiently promote, monitor or enforce adherence to certain FirstEnergy policies and its code of conduct. Furthermore, certain former members of senior management did not reasonably ensure that relevant information was communicated within our organization and not withheld from our independent directors, our Audit Committee, and our independent auditor. Among the matters considered with respect to the determination by the committee of independent members of the Board of Directors that certain former members of senior management violated certain FirstEnergy policies and its code of conduct related to a payment of approximately $4 million made in early 2019 in connection with the termination of a purported consulting agreement, as amended, which had been in place since 2013. The counterparty to such agreement was an entity associated with an individual who subsequently was appointed to a full-time role as an Ohio government official directly involved in regulating the Ohio Companies, including with respect to distribution rates. FirstEnergy believes that payments under the consulting agreement may have been for purposes other than those represented within the consulting agreement. Immediately following these terminations, the independent members of its Board appointed Mr. Steven E. Strah to the position of Acting Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Christopher D. Pappas, a current member of the Board, to the temporary position of Executive Director, each effective as of October 29, 2020. Mr. Donald T. Misheff will continue to serve as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board. Additionally, on November 8, 2020, Robert P. Reffner, Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, and Ebony L. Yeboah-Amankwah, Vice President, General Counsel, and Chief Ethics Officer, were separated from FirstEnergy due to inaction and conduct that the Board determined was influenced by the improper tone at the top. The matter is a subject of the ongoing internal investigation as it relates to the government investigations.

Nuclear Plant Matters

On October 15, 2019, JCP&L, ME, PN and GPUN executed an asset purchase and sale agreement with TMI-2 Solutions, LLC, a subsidiary of EnergySolutions, LLC, concerning the transfer and dismantlement of TMI-2. This transfer of TMI-2 to TMI-2 Solutions, LLC will include the transfer of: (i) the ownership and operating NRC licenses for TMI-2; (ii) the external trusts for the decommissioning and environmental remediation of TMI-2; and (iii) related liabilities. On August 10, 2020, JCP&L, ME, PN, GPUN, TMI-2 Solutions, LLC, and the PA DEP reached a settlement agreement regarding the decommissioning of TMI-2. On December 2, 2020, the NJBPU issued an order approving the transfer and sale under the conditions requested by Rate Counsel and agreed to by JCP&L. Also, on December 2, 2020, the NRC issued its order approving the license transfer as requested. With the receipt of all required regulatory approvals, the transaction was consummated on December 18, 2020. See Note 1, "Organization and Basis of Presentation," for additional discussion.

FES Bankruptcy

On March 31, 2018, FES, including its consolidated subsidiaries, FG, NG, FE Aircraft Leasing Corp., Norton Energy

66

Storage L.L.C. and FGMUC, and FENOC filed voluntary petitions for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court and emerged on February 27, 2020. See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations," for additional discussion.

Other Legal Matters

There are various lawsuits, claims (including claims for asbestos exposure) and proceedings related to FirstEnergy's normal business operations pending against FE or its subsidiaries. The loss or range of loss in these matters is not expected to be material to FE or its subsidiaries. The other potentially material items not otherwise discussed above are described under Note 14, "Regulatory Matters."

FirstEnergy accrues legal liabilities only when it concludes that it is probable that it has an obligation for such costs and can reasonably estimate the amount of such costs. In cases where FirstEnergy determines that it is not probable, but reasonably possible that it has a material obligation, it discloses such obligations and the possible loss or range of loss if such estimate can be made. If it were ultimately determined that FE or its subsidiaries have legal liability or are otherwise made subject to liability based on any of the matters referenced above, it could have a material adverse effect on FE's or its subsidiaries' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

FirstEnergy prepares consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Application of these principles often requires a high degree of judgment, estimates and assumptions that affect financial results. FirstEnergy's accounting policies require significant judgment regarding estimates and assumptions underlying the amounts included in the financial statements. Additional information regarding the application of accounting policies is included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue Recognition

FirstEnergy follows the accrual method of accounting for revenues, recognizing revenue for electricity that has been delivered to customers but not yet billed through the end of the accounting period. The determination of electricity sales to individual customers is based on meter readings, which occur on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the end of each month, electricity delivered to customers since the last meter reading is estimated and a corresponding accrual for unbilled sales is recognized. The determination of unbilled sales and revenues requires management to make estimates regarding electricity available for retail load, transmission and distribution line losses, demand by customer class, applicable billing demands, weather-related impacts, number of days unbilled and tariff rates in effect within each customer class. FirstEnergy has elected the optional invoice practical expedient for most of its revenues and utilizes the optional short-term contract exemption for transmission revenues due to the annual establishment of revenue requirements, which eliminates the need to provide certain revenue disclosures regarding unsatisfied performance obligations. See Note 2, "Revenue," for additional information.

Regulatory Accounting

FirstEnergy’s Regulated Distribution and Regulated Transmission segments are subject to regulations that set the prices (rates) the Utilities and the Transmission Companies are permitted to charge customers based on costs that the regulatory agencies determine are permitted to be recovered. At times, regulators permit the future recovery through rates of costs that would be currently charged to expense by an unregulated company. This ratemaking process results in the recording of regulatory assets and liabilities based on anticipated future cash inflows and outflows. Management applies judgment in evaluating the evidence available to assess the probability of recovery of regulatory assets from customers, including, but not limited to evaluating evidence related to precedent for similar items experienced at the Company and comparable companies within similar jurisdictions, as well as assessing progress of communications between the Company and regulators. Certain regulatory assets are recorded based on prior precedent or anticipated recovery based on rate making premises without a specific rate order. FirstEnergy regularly reviews these assets to assess their ultimate recoverability within the approved regulatory guidelines. Impairment risk associated with these assets relates to potentially adverse legislative, judicial or regulatory actions in the future. See Note 14, "Regulatory Matters," for additional information.

FirstEnergy reviews the probability of recovery of regulatory assets at each balance sheet date and whenever new events occur. Similarly, FirstEnergy records regulatory liabilities when a determination is made that a refund is probable or when ordered by a commission. Factors that may affect probability include changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of a regulatory commission order or passage of new legislation. If recovery of a regulatory asset is no longer probable, FirstEnergy will write off that regulatory asset as a charge against earnings. FirstEnergy considers the entire regulatory asset balance as the unit of account for the purposes of balance sheet classification rather than the next years recovery and as such net regulatory assets and liabilities are presented in the non-current section on the FirstEnergy Consolidated Balance Sheets.

67

Pension and OPEB Accounting
FirstEnergy provides noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of its employees and non-qualified pension plans that cover certain employees. The plans provide defined benefits based on years of service and compensation levels. Under the cash-balance portion of the pension plan (for employees hired on or after January 1, 2014), FirstEnergy makes contributions to eligible employee retirement accounts based on a pay credit and an interest credit.
FirstEnergy provides a minimum amount of noncontributory life insurance to retired employees in addition to optional contributory insurance. Health care benefits, which include certain employee contributions, deductibles and co-payments, are also available upon retirement to certain employees, their dependents and, under certain circumstances, their survivors. FirstEnergy recognizes the expected cost of providing pension and OPEB to employees and their beneficiaries and covered dependents from the time employees are hired until they become eligible to receive those benefits. FirstEnergy also has obligations to former or inactive employees after employment, but before retirement, for disability-related benefits.
FirstEnergy recognizes a pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment for the change in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains and losses annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement. The remaining components of pension and OPEB expense, primarily service costs, interest on obligations, assumed return on assets and prior service costs, are recorded on a monthly basis.
Under the approved bankruptcy settlement agreement discussed above, upon emergence, FES and FENOC employees ceased earning years of service under the FirstEnergy pension and OPEB plans. The emergence on February 27, 2020, triggered a remeasurement of the affected pension and OPEB plans and as a result, FirstEnergy recognized a non-cash, pre-tax pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment of approximately $423 million in the first quarter of 2020. The first quarter 2020 pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment primarily reflects a 38 bps decrease in the discount rate used to measure benefit obligations from December 31, 2019, partially offset by a slightly higher than expected return on assets. In the fourth quarter 2020, FirstEnergy recognized a $54 million pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment, primarily reflecting a 29 bps decrease in the discount rate used to measure benefit obligations from February 27, 2020, partially offset by higher than expected return on assets. Of the $54 million, approximately $21 million was allocated to certain of the Transmission Companies that are expected to be recovered through formula transmission rates. The annual pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 were $477 million (including the $423 million in the first quarter of 2020 described above), $676 million, and $145 million, respectively. Of these amounts, approximately $2 million and $1 million are included in discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2019, and 2018, respectively. Furthermore, of these annual pension and OPEB mark-to-market amounts, approximately $40 million, $47 million and $8 million were allocated to certain of the Transmission Companies and expected to be recovered through formula transmission rates, respectively.

In selecting an assumed discount rate, FirstEnergy considers currently available rates of return on high-quality fixed income investments expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pension and OPEB obligations. The assumed discount rates for pension were 2.67%, 3.34% and 4.44% as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The assumed discount rates for OPEB were 2.45%, 3.18% and 4.30% as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Effective in 2019, FirstEnergy changed the approach utilized to estimate the service cost and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost for pension and OPEB plans. Historically, FirstEnergy estimated these components utilizing a single, weighted average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligation. FirstEnergy has elected to use a spot rate approach in the estimation of the components of benefit cost by applying specific spot rates along the full yield curve to the relevant projected cash flows, as this provides a better estimate of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between projected benefit cash flows to the corresponding spot yield curve rates. This election was considered a change in estimate and, accordingly, accounted for prospectively, and did not have a material impact on FirstEnergy's financial statements.

FirstEnergy’s assumed rate of return on pension plan assets considers historical market returns and economic forecasts for the types of investments held by the pension trusts. In 2020, FirstEnergy’s qualified pension and OPEB plan assets experienced gains of $1,225 million or 14.7%, compared to gains of $1,492 million, or 20.2% in 2019, and losses of $371 million, or (4)% in 2018 and assumed a 7.50% rate of return on plan assets in 2020, 2019 and 2018, which generated $651 million, $569 million and $605 million of expected returns on plan assets, respectively. The expected return on pension and OPEB assets is based on the trusts’ asset allocation targets and the historical performance of risk-based and fixed income securities. The gains or losses generated as a result of the difference between expected and actual returns on plan assets will decrease or increase future net periodic pension and OPEB cost as the difference is recognized annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or whenever a plan is determined to qualify for remeasurement. The expected return on plan assets for 2021 is 7.50%.

During 2020, the Society of Actuaries published new mortality tables that include more current data than the RP-2014 tables as well as new improvement scales. An analysis of FirstEnergy pension and OPEB plan mortality data indicated the use of the Pri-2012 mortality table with projection scale MP-2020 was most appropriate. As such, the Pri-2012 mortality table with projection scale MP-2020 was utilized to determine the 2020 benefit cost and obligation as of December 31, 2020 for the FirstEnergy pension and OPEB plans. The impact of using the Pri-2012 mortality table with projection scale MP-2020 resulted in a decrease

68

to the projected benefit obligation of approximately $74 million and $2 million for the pension and OPEB plans, respectively, and was included in the 2020 pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment.

FirstEnergy expects its 2021 pre-tax net periodic benefit credit to be approximately $267 million based upon the following assumptions:

-------------------------------------------- ------- - ---- ---- -
Assumptions Pension OPEB
Service cost weighted-average discount rate 3.10 % 3.03 %
Interest cost weighted-average discount rate 2.58 % 1.66 %
Expected long-term return on plan assets 7.50 % 7.50 %

The following table reflects the portion of pension and OPEB costs that were charged to expense, including any pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustments, in the three years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018:

----------------------------------------- ------------- --- ---- ---- ---- --- ---- - ---
Postemployment Benefits Expense (Credits) 2020 2019 2018
 (In millions)
Pension $ 254 $ 622 $ 247
OPEB (47) (21) (45)
Total $ 207 $ 601 $ 202

Health care cost trends continue to increase and will affect future OPEB costs. The composite health care trend rate assumptions were approximately 6.0%-5.5% in 2020 and 2019, gradually decreasing to 4.5% in later years. In determining FirstEnergy’s trend rate assumptions, included are the specific provisions of FirstEnergy’s health care plans, the demographics and utilization rates of plan participants, actual cost increases experienced in FirstEnergy’s health care plans, and projections of future medical trend rates.

The effects on 2021 pension and OPEB net periodic benefit costs from changes in key assumptions are as follows:

Increase in Net Periodic Benefit Costs from Adverse Changes in Key Assumptions

-------------------------- ----------------- ------------- --- ---- -- ----- -- - -- - ---
Assumption Adverse Change Pension OPEB Total
 (In millions)
Discount rate Decrease by 0.25% $ 400 $ 16 $ 416
Long-term return on assets Decrease by 0.25% $ 22 $ 1 $ 23
Health care trend rate Increase by 1.0% N/A $ 16 $ 16

See Note 5, "Pension and Other Postemployment Benefits," for additional information.

Income Taxes
FirstEnergy records income taxes in accordance with the liability method of accounting. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts recognized for tax purposes. Investment tax credits, which were deferred when utilized, are being amortized over the recovery period of the related property. Deferred income tax liabilities related to temporary tax and accounting basis differences and tax credit carryforward items are recognized at the statutory income tax rates in effect when the liabilities are expected to be paid. Deferred tax assets are recognized based on income tax rates expected to be in effect when they are settled.

FirstEnergy accounts for uncertainty in income taxes in its financial statements using a benefit recognition model with a two-step approach, a more-likely-than-not recognition criterion and a measurement attribute that measures the position as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon settlement. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. FirstEnergy recognizes interest expense or income related to uncertain tax positions by applying the applicable statutory interest rate to the difference between the tax position recognized and the amount previously taken, or expected to be taken, on the tax return. FirstEnergy includes net interest and penalties in the provision for income taxes.

See Note 7, "Taxes," for additional information on FirstEnergy income taxes.

69

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

See Note 1, "Organization and Basis of Presentation," for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 15]:
Note 15. Revenue Recognition 121

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 103

[See Note 11]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Convertible Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, no shares were issued or outstanding. Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. Share Repurchases In July 2020, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to an additional $28.0 billion of its Class C capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020, we repurchased and subsequently retired 15.3 million and 21.5 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of $18.4 billion and $31.1 billion, respectively.

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 103

[See Note 8]:
Note 8.Leases We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain of our offices, data centers, land, colocations, and equipment. We have also entered into various non-cancelable finance lease agreements for certain network equipment. Our leases have original lease periods expiring between 2021 and 2093. Many leases include one or more options to renew. We do not assume renewals in our determination of the lease term unless the renewals are deemed to be reasonably assured. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. The components of lease costs for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows (in millions): ----------------------------------- ------------ ----- ---- ----- - ----- December 31, 2020 2019 Finance lease cost Amortization of right-of-use assets $ 259 $ 195 Interest 14 12 Operating lease cost 1,391 1,139 Variable lease cost and other, net 269 160 Total lease cost $ 1,933 $ 1,506 Operating lease expense was $629 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 under Topic 840. 100  Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows: ------------------------------------- ------------ - ---------- --- - December 31, 2020 2019 Weighted-average remaining lease term Operating leases 12.2 years 13.0 years Finance leases 14.9 years 15.3 years Weighted-average discount rate Operating leases 3.1 % 3.2 % Finance leases 2.9 % 3.1 % The following is a schedule, by years, of maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2020 (in millions): ---------------------------------- ---------------- ------ -------------- ----- - --- Operating Leases Finance Leases 2021 $ 1,300 $ 68 2022 1,394 51 2023 1,266 41 2024 1,163 41 2025 1,001 41 Thereafter 7,206 401 Total undiscounted cash flows 13,330 643 Less: Imputed interest (2,676) (120) Present value of lease liabilities $ 10,654 $ 523 Lease liabilities, current $ 1,023 $ 54 Lease liabilitie...

[see Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 103

[see Note 13]:
(13)The restrictive covenants set forth in Article IV of the Base Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes. Section 1.3.Transfer and Exchange. This Section 1.3 shall replace Section 2.7 and the first two paragraphs of Section 2.14.2 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only. 1.3.1.Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes. A Global Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes will be exchanged by the Company for Certificated Notes if: (a)the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 120 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary; (b)the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Certificated Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee; or (c)there has occurred and is continuing a Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes. 5 Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (a), (b) or (c) above, Certificated Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.8 and 2.11 of the Base Indenture. Except as otherwise permitted and/or required by the Indenture, every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 1.3 or Section 2.8 or 2.11 of the Base Indenture, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note f...

[See Note 5]:
(5)As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. (6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)This primarily reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. 28  EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjuste...

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Workfront Subsequent to November 27, 2020, we completed our acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a work management platform for marketers, for approximately $1.50 billion in cash consideration. The initial purchase accounting for this transaction has not yet been completed given the short period of time between the acquisition date and issuance of these financial statements. Workfront will be integrated into our Digital Experience reportable segment for financial reporting purposes in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. 79  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Allegorithmic On January 23, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Allegorithmic, a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. Prior to the acquisition, we held an equity interest that was accounted for as an equity-method investment. We acquired the remaining equity interest for approximately $106 million in cash consideration. The total purchase price, inclusive of the acquisition-date fair-value of our pre-existing equity interest, was approximately $161 million. In conjunction with the Allegorithmic acquisition, we separately recognized an investment gain of approximately $42 million, which represents the difference between the $55 million acquisition-date fair value of our pre-existing equity interest and our previous carrying amount. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic's net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess purchase price over the value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Of the total purchase price, $126 million was allocated to goodwill that was non-deductible for tax purposes, $45 million to identifiable intangible assets and the remain...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 103

[See Note 5]:
(5)As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, this primarily reflects severance costs and branch closure charges associated with our restructuring programs. (6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)This primarily reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. 28  EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjuste...

[See Note 7]:
(7)Lennar Other 58  LENNAR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued) The assets and liabilities related to the Company's segments were as follows: -------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------- ------------------ --------- ----------- ------------ --------- ----- ------- ------- ---------- ---------- (In thousands) November 30, 2020 Assets: Homebuilding Financial Services Multifamily Lennar Other Total Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,703,986 116,171 38,963 3,918 2,863,038 Restricted cash 15,211 54,481 -- -- 69,692 Receivables, net (1) 298,671 552,779 86,629 -- 938,079 Inventories 16,925,228 -- 249,920 -- 17,175,148 Loans held-for-sale (2) -- 1,490,105 -- -- 1,490,105 Loans held-for-investments, net -- 72,626 -- -- 72,626 Investments held-to-maturity -- 164,230 -- -- 164,230 Investments available-for-sale (3) -- -- -- 53,497 53,497 Investments in unconsolidated entities 953,177 68,869 724,647 386,999 2,133,692 Goodwill 3,442,359 189,699 -- -- 3,632,058 Other assets (4) 1,190,793 68,027 75,749 8,443 1,343,012 $ 25,529,425 2,776,987 1,175,908 452,857 29,935,177 Liabilities: Notes and other debts payable, net $ 5,955,758 1,463,919 -- 1,906 7,421,583 Other liabilities 3,969,893 180,329 252,911 11,060 4,414,193 $ 9,925,651 1,644,248 252,911 12,966 11,835,776 -------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------- ------------------ --------- ----------- ------------ --------- ----- ------- ------- ---------- ---------- (In thousands) November 30, 2019 Assets: Homebuilding Financial Services Multifamily Lennar Other Total Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,200,832 234,113 8,711 2,340 1,445,996 Restricted cash 9,698 12,022 -- 975 22,695 Receivables, net (1) 329,124 500,847 76,906 -- 906,877 Inventories 17,776,507 -- 315,107 -- 18,091,614 Loans held-for-sale (2) -- 1,644,939 -- -- 1,644,939 Loans held-for-investments, net -- 73,867 -- -- 73,867 Investments held-to-maturity -- 190,289 -- 54,117 244,406 Investments available-for-sale (3) -- 3...

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

[PART II

ITEM 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22

[" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information concerning financing encumbrances affecting certain of the Utilities’ properties.

FirstEnergy controls the following generation sources as of December 31, 2020, shown in the table below. Except for the OVEC participation referenced in the footnotes to the table, the Regulated Distribution segment generating units are owned by either JCP&L or MP.

---------------------------------- ---- ------------------------------ ---------- -- ---------------------- -----

Plant (Location) Unit Total Corp/Other Regulated Distribution
 Net Demonstrated Capacity (MW)
Super-critical Coal-fired:
Harrison (Haywood, WV) 1-3 1,984 — 1,984
Fort Martin (Maidsville, WV) 1-2 1,098 — 1,098
 3,082 — 3,082
Sub-critical and Other Coal-fired:
OVEC (Cheshire, OH) (Madison, IN) 1-11 78 (1) 67 11

Pumped-storage Hydro:
Bath County (Warm Springs, VA) 1-6 487 (2) — 487
Yards Creek (Blairstown Twp., NJ) 1-3 210 (3) — 210
 697 — 697
Total 3,857 67 3,790

(1)Represents AE Supply']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

['s common stock as of January 31, 2021. We have historically paid quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. Dividend payments are subject to declaration by the Board and future dividend decisions determined by the Board may be impacted by earnings growth, cash flows, credit metrics and other business conditions. Information regarding retained earnings available for payment of cash dividends is given in Note 11, "]:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

23

SHAREHOLDER RETURN

The following graph shows the total cumulative return from a $100 investment on December 31, 2015, in FE’s common stock compared with the total cumulative returns of EEI’s Index of Investor-Owned Electric Utility Companies and the S&P 500.

FirstEnergy had no transactions regarding purchases of FE common stock during the fourth quarter of 2020.

FirstEnergy does not have any publicly announced plan or program for share purchases.

ITEM 6.     [RESERVED]

24

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Forward-Looking Statements: This Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These statements include declarations regarding management']:
Note 23. Derivative and Hedging Instruments The Company monitors and manages its foreign currency and interest rate exposures as part of its overall risk management program which focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on its operating results. A primary objective of the Company's risk management strategies is to reduce the financial impact that may arise from volatility in foreign currency exchange rates principally through the use of both foreign exchange derivative contracts (Derivatives) and foreign currency denominated debt (Net Investment Hedge). In addition, the Company may enter into interest rate derivative contracts to manage the effects of interest rate movements on the Company's aggregate liability portfolio, including potential future debt issuances (Cash Flow Hedges). Foreign Exchange Risk Derivatives The Company enters into foreign exchange derivative contracts to manage currency exposure associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements which are valued based on currencies other than the functional currency of the entity. The Company may also enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts to offset possible changes in value due to foreign exchange fluctuations of assets and liabilities. In addition, the Company is subject to foreign exchange risk as part of its daily settlement activities. This risk is typically limited to a few days between when a payment transaction takes place and the subsequent settlement with customers. To manage this risk, the Company enters into short duration foreign exchange derivative contracts based upon anticipated receipts and disbursements for the respective currency position. The objective of these activities is to reduce the Company's exposure to gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against its functional currencies. The Company's derivative contracts are summarized below:...

[" and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, which may include the following (see Glossary of Terms for definitions of capitalized terms):

•The results of the ongoing internal investigation matters and evaluation of our controls framework and remediation of our material weakness in internal control over financial reporting.
•The risks and uncertainties associated with government investigations regarding HB 6 and related matters including potential adverse impacts on federal or state regulatory matters including, but not limited to, matters relating to rates.
•The risks and uncertainties associated with litigation, arbitration, mediation and similar proceedings.
•Legislative and regulatory developments, including, but not limited to, matters related to rates, compliance and enforcement activity.
•The ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits from strategic and financial goals, including, but not limited to, maintaining financial flexibility, overcoming current uncertainties and challenges associated with the ongoing governmental investigations, executing our transmission and distribution investment plans, controlling costs, improving our credit metrics, strengthening our balance sheet and growing earnings.
•Economic and weather conditions affecting future operating results, such as a recession, significant weather events and other natural disasters, and associated regulatory events or actions in response to such conditions.
•Mitigating exposure for remedial activities associated with retired and formerly owned electric generation assets.
•The extent and duration of COVID-19 and the impacts to our business, operations and financial condition resulting from the outbreak of COVID-19 including, but not limited to, disruption of businesses in our territories, volatile capital and credit markets, legislative and regulatory actions, the effectiveness of our pandemic and business continuity plans, the precautionary measures we are taking on behalf of our customers, contractors and employees, our customers’ ability to make their utility payment and the potential for supply-chain disruptions.
•The potential of non-compliance with debt covenants in our credit facilities due to matters associated with the government investigations regarding HB 6 and related matters.
•The ability to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance with our financial plans, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and credit markets affecting us, including the increasing number of financial institutions evaluating the impact of climate change on their investment decisions.
•Actions that may be taken by credit rating agencies that could negatively affect either our access to or terms of financing or our financial condition and liquidity.
•Changes in assumptions regarding economic conditions within our territories, the reliability of our transmission and distribution system, or the availability of capital or other resources supporting identified transmission and distribution investment opportunities.
•Changes in customers’ demand for power, including, but not limited to, the impact of climate change or energy efficiency and peak demand reduction mandates.
•Changes in national and regional economic conditions affecting us and/or our major industrial and commercial customers or others with which we do business.
•The risks associated with cyber-attacks and other disruptions to our information technology system, which may compromise our operations, and data security breaches of sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary or personally identifiable information.
•The ability to comply with applicable reliability standards and energy efficiency and peak demand reduction mandates.
•Changes to environmental laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, those related to climate change.
•Changing market conditions affecting the measurement of certain liabilities and the value of assets held in our pension trusts and other trust funds, or causing us to make contributions sooner, or in amounts that are larger, than currently anticipated.
•Labor disruptions by our unionized workforce.
•Changes to significant accounting policies.
•Any changes in tax laws or regulations, or adverse tax audit results or rulings.
•The risks and other factors discussed from time to time in our SEC filings.

Dividends declared from time to time on our common stock during any period may in the aggregate vary from prior periods due to circumstances considered by our Board of Directors at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

25

These forward-looking statements are also qualified by, and should be read together with, the risk factors included in (a) Item 1A. Risk Factors, (b) Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and (c) other factors discussed herein and in FirstEnergy']:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 24

[" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Net income by business segment was as follows:

--------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ------------------- ----- ---- ----- ------------ ------------ ----- ------ ----- - ------
(In millions, except per share amounts) For the Years Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease)
 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018
Net Income By Business Segment:
Regulated Distribution $ 959 $ 1,076 $ 1,242 $ (117) $ (166)
Regulated Transmission 464 447 397 17 50

Corporate/Other (420) (619) (617) 199 (2)
Income from Continuing Operations $ 1,003 $ 904 $ 1,022 $ 99 $ (118)

Discontinued Operations 76 8 326 68 (318)
Net Income $ 1,079 $ 912 $ 1,348 $ 167 $ (436)

Earnings per share of common stock
Basic - Continuing Operations $ 1.85 $ 1.69 $ 1.33 $ 0.16 $ 0.36
Basic - Discontinued Operations 0.14 0.01 0.66 0.13 (0.65)
Basic - Net Income Attributable to $ 1.99 $ 1.70 $ 1.99 $ 0.29 $ (0.29)
Common Stockholders

Earnings per share of common stock
Diluted - Continuing Operations $ 1.85 $ 1.67 $ 1.33 $ 0.18 $ 0.34
Diluted - Discontinued Operations 0.14 0.01 0.66 0.13 (0.65)
Diluted - Net Income Attributable to $ 1.99 $ 1.68 $ 1.99 $ 0.31 $ (0.31)
Common Stockholders

32

Summary of Results of Operations — 2020 Compared with 2019

Financial results for FirstEnergy’s business segments for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, were as follows:

------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---------------------- ----- - ----- ------------------------------------------- ----- ------------------------ ----- ------- - ------
2020 Financial Results Regulated Distribution Regulated Transmission Corporate/Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated
 (In millions)
Revenues:

Electric $ 9,130 $ 1,613 $ (139) $ 10,604
Other 233 17 (64) 186

Total Revenues 9,363 1,630 (203) 10,790

Operating Expenses:
Fuel 369 — — 369
Purchased power 2,687 — 14 2,701
Other operating expenses 3,178 282 (169) 3,291

Provision for depreciation 896 313 65 1,274

Amortization (deferral) of regulatory assets, net (64) 11 — (53)
General taxes 770 232 44 1,046

Total Operating Expenses 7,836 838 (46) 8,628

Operating Income (Loss) 1,527 792 (157) 2,162

Other Income (Expense):

Miscellaneous income, net 332 30 70 432

Pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment (323) (40) (114) (477)
Interest expense (501) (219) (345) (1,065)
Capitalized financing costs 37 39 1 77
Total Other Expense (455) (190) (388) (1,033)

Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes (Benefits) 1,072 602 (545) 1,129
Income taxes (benefits) 113 138 (125) 126
Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations 959 464 (420) 1,003
Discontinued Operations, net of tax — — 76 76
Net Income (Loss) $ 959 $ 464 $ (344) $ 1,079

33

------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ----- ---------------------- ----- - ----- ------------------------------------------- ----- ------------------------ ----- ------- - ------
2019 Financial Results Regulated Distribution Regulated Transmission Corporate/Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated
 (In millions)
Revenues:

Electric $ 9,452 $ 1,510 $ (128) $ 10,834
Other 246 16 (61) 201

Total Revenues 9,698 1,526 (189) 11,035

Operating Expenses:
Fuel 497 — — 497
Purchased power 2,910 — 17 2,927
Other operating expenses 2,836 272 (156) 2,952

Provision for depreciation 863 284 73 1,220

Amortization (deferral) of regulatory assets, net (89) 10 — (79)
General taxes 760 209 39 1,008

Total Operating Expenses 7,777 775 (27) 8,525

Operating Income (Loss) 1,921 751 (162) 2,510

Other Income (Expense):

Miscellaneous income, net 174 15 54 243

Pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment (290) (47) (337) (674)
Interest expense (495) (192) (346) (1,033)
Capitalized financing costs 37 33 1 71
Total Other Expense (574) (191) (628) (1,393)

Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes (Benefits) 1,347 560 (790) 1,117
Income taxes (benefits) 271 113 (171) 213
Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations 1,076 447 (619) 904
Discontinued Operations, net of tax — — 8 8
Net Income (Loss) $ 1,076 $ 447 $ (611) $ 912

34

------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------- ----- ---------------------- ---- - --- ------------------------------------------- ---- ------------------------ ---- ----- - -----
Changes Between 2020 and 2019 Financial ResultsIncrease (Decrease) Regulated Distribution Regulated Transmission Corporate/Other and Reconciling Adjustments FirstEnergy Consolidated
 (In millions)
Revenues:

Electric $ (322) $ 103 $ (11) $ (230)
Other (13) 1 (3) (15)

Total Revenues (335) 104 (14) (245)

Operating Expenses:
Fuel (128) — — (128)
Purchased power (223) — (3) (226)
Other operating expenses 342 10 (13) 339

Provision for depreciation 33 29 (8) 54

Amortization (deferral) of regulatory assets, net 25 1 — 26
General taxes 10 23 5 38

Total Operating Expenses 59 63 (19) 103

Operating Income (Loss) (394) 41 5 (348)

Other Income (Expense):

Miscellaneous income, net 158 15 16 189

Pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment (33) 7 223 197
Interest expense (6) (27) 1 (32)
Capitalized financing costs — 6 — 6
Total Other Expense 119 1 240 360

Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes (Benefits) (275) 42 245 12
Income taxes (benefits) (158) 25 46 (87)
Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations (117) 17 199 99
Discontinued Operations, net of tax — — 68 68
Net Income (Loss) $ (117) $ 17 $ 267 $ 167

35

Regulated Distribution — 2020 Compared with 2019

Regulated Distribution']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

['s operating results increased $17 million in 2020, as compared to 2019, primarily resulting from the impact of a higher rate base at ATSI, MAIT, and JCPL, and higher capitalized financing costs, partially offset by higher interest expense at FET and a true-up of the forward-looking formula rate at ATSI and MAIT.

Revenues —

Total revenues increased $104 million in 2020, as compared to 2019, primarily due to the recovery of incremental operating expenses and a higher rate base at ATSI, MAIT and JCP&L, partially offset by the impact of a true-up of the forward-looking rate.

Revenues by transmission asset owner are shown in the following table:

------------------------------------ -------------------------------- ----- ---- --- -------- ----- -- - ---
 For the Years Ended December 31,
Revenues by Transmission Asset Owner 2020 2019 Increase
 (In millions)
ATSI $ 809 $ 758 $ 51
TrAIL 255 251 4
MAIT 254 227 27
JCP&L 178 160 18
Other 134 130 4
Total Revenues $ 1,630 $ 1,526 $ 104

Operating Expenses —

Total operating expenses increased $63 million in 2020, as compared to 2019, primarily due to higher property taxes and depreciation due to a higher asset base. The majority of operating expenses are recovered through formula rates, resulting in no material impact on current period earnings.

38

Income Taxes —

Regulated Transmission’s effective tax rate was 22.9% and 20.2% for 2020 and 2019, respectively due to changes in the amortization of excess deferred income taxes and the absence of certain tax benefits recognized in 2019.

 Corporate/Other — 2020 Compared with 2019

Financial results from Corporate/Other and reconciling adjustments resulted in a $199 million increase in income from continuing operations for 2020 compared to 2019, primarily due to a $223 million decrease in the pension and OPEB mark-to-market adjustment, $10 million tax benefits from accelerated amortization of certain investment tax credits and lower other Pension and OPEB non-service costs. These were partially offset by higher other operating expenses from investigation-related costs and lower returns on certain equity method investments.

For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, FirstEnergy recorded income from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $76 million and $8 million, respectively. The change in discontinued operations, net of tax was primarily due to lower settlement-related expenses with the FES Debtors, including adjustments to the estimated worthless stock deduction and Intercompany Tax Allocation Agreement, as well as the acceleration of net pension and OPEB prior service credits in 2020 and the absence of tax expense in 2019 associated with non-deductible interest.

REGULATORY ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that have been deferred because of their probable future recovery from customers through regulated rates. Regulatory liabilities represent amounts that are expected to be credited to customers through future regulated rates or amounts collected from customers for costs not yet incurred. FirstEnergy, the Utilities and the Transmission Companies net their regulatory assets and liabilities based on federal and state jurisdictions.

Management assesses the probability of recovery of regulatory assets at each balance sheet date and whenever new events occur. Factors that may affect probability relate to changes in the regulatory environment, issuance of a regulatory commission order or passage of new legislation. Management applies judgment in evaluating the evidence available to assess the probability of recovery of regulatory assets from customers, including, but not limited to evaluating evidence related to precedent for similar items at FirstEnergy and information on comparable companies within similar jurisdictions, as well as assessing progress of communications between FirstEnergy and regulators. Certain of these regulatory assets, totaling approximately $117 million and $111 million as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively, are recorded based on prior precedent or anticipated recovery based on rate making premises without a specific order, of which, $79 million and $73 million as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively, are being sought for recovery in a formula rate amendment filing at ATSI that is pending before FERC. See Note 14, "]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of November 27, 2020 and November 29, 2019 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- - ---- ----- - --- (dollar in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2020 2019 4.75% 2020 Notes February 2010 February 2020 4.92% $ -- $ 900 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% 500 -- 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 -- 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 -- 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 -- Term Loan October 2018 April 2020 2.47% -- 2,250 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Less: Current portion of debt -- (3,150) Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (33) (11) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,117 $ 989 Current portion of debt, at par $ -- $ 3,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs -- (1) Carrying value of current debt $ -- $ 3,149 102  ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Term Loan In October 2018, we entered into a credit agreement providing a $2.25 billion senior unsecured term loan ("Term Loan") with a maturity date of April 30, 2020. The Term Loan ranked equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. There were no scheduled principal amortization payments prior to maturity and the Term Loan could be prepaid and terminated at our election at any time without penalty or premium. At our election, the Term Loan bore interest at either (i) LIBOR plus a margin, based on our debt ratings, ranging from 0.500% to 1.000% or (ii) a base rate plus a margin, based on our debt ratings, ranging from 0.040% to 0.110%. The related issuance costs were amortized to interest expense over the Term Loan period using the effective interest method. Interest was payable periodically, in arrears, at the end of each interest period we elec...

[' access to capital markets and costs of financing are influenced by the credit ratings of their securities. The following table displays FE’s and its subsidiaries’ credit ratings as of February 15, 2021:

------ ----------------------- -------------- ---------------- ----------------- ------- ----- --- ------- ----- ---- ------- -----
 Corporate Credit Rating Senior Secured Senior Unsecured Outlook/Watch (1)
Issuer S&P Moody’s Fitch S&P Moody’s Fitch S&P Moody’s Fitch S&P Moody’s Fitch
FE BB Ba1 BB+ BB Ba1 BB+ CW-N N N
AGC BB Baa2 BBB- CW-N S N
ATSI BB A3 BBB- BB+ A3 BBB CW-N S N
CEI BB Baa2 BBB- BBB A3 BBB+ BB+ Baa2 BBB CW-N N N
FET BB Baa2 BB+ BB Baa2 BB+ CW-N N N
JCP&L BB A3 BBB- BB+ A3 BBB CW-N S N
ME BB A3 BBB- BB+ A3 BBB CW-N S N
MAIT BB A3 BBB- BB+ A3 BBB CW-N S N
MP BB Baa2 BBB- BBB A3 BBB+ BB+ Baa2 CW-N S N
OE BB A3 BBB- BBB A1 BBB+ BB+ A3 BBB CW-N N N
PN BB Baa1 BBB- BB+ Baa1 BBB CW-N S N
Penn BB A3 BBB- BBB A1 BBB+ CW-N S N
PE BB Baa2 BBB- BBB A3 BBB+ CW-N S N
TE BB Baa1 BBB- BBB A2 BBB+ CW-N N N
TrAIL BB A3 BBB- BB+ A3 BBB CW-N S N
WP BB A3 BBB- BBB A1 BBB+ CW-N S N

 (1) S = Stable, P = Positive, N = Negative, CW-N = CreditWatch with Negative implications

On May 27, 2020, Moody’s upgraded the issuer and senior unsecured ratings of JCP&L to A3 from Baa1 and the rating outlook was changed to stable.

On July 23, 2020, S&P placed the ratings of FE and its subsidiaries on CreditWatch with negative implications.

On July 24, 2020, Moody’s revised FE’s ratings outlook to negative from stable. FE’s Baa3 corporate credit rating and Baa3 senior unsecured rating were affirmed.

On July 28, 2020, Fitch revised FE and its subsidiaries, with the exception of MP, AGC and PE, ratings outlook to negative from stable. The outlook of MP, AGC and PE is stable. Fitch also affirmed FE and its subsidiary ratings.

On August 14, 2020, Moody’s affirmed OE’s A3 senior unsecured and issuer ratings and Penn’s A3 issuer rating. The outlooks were changed to stable from positive.

45

On October 30, 2020, Fitch downgraded FE and FET’s issuer default ratings and senior unsecured ratings one notch to BBB- from BBB. Fitch also downgraded FE’s subsidiaries issuer default ratings one notch to BBB from BBB+, except for PE, MP, and AGC, whose ratings were affirmed at BBB. Senior unsecured issue ratings for the subsidiaries were downgraded one notch, where applicable, to BBB+ from A-. Senior secured issue ratings for the subsidiaries were downgraded one notch, where applicable, to A- from A. The rating outlook is negative for FE and its subsidiaries.

On October 30, 2020, S&P downgraded FE and its subsidiaries issuer credit ratings two notches to BB+ from BBB, except for AGC which was lowered to BB from BBB-. The senior unsecured issue ratings of FE and FET were changed one notch to BB+ from BBB-. The senior unsecured issue ratings of the subsidiaries, where applicable, were lowered one notch to BBB- from BBB. Additionally, the senior secured issue ratings of the subsidiaries, where applicable, were lowered one notch to BBB+ from A-. The ratings on FE and its subsidiaries remain on CreditWatch with negative implications.

On November 20, 2020, Fitch downgraded the issuer default rating (IDR) and senior unsecured ratings of FE and FET one notch, to BB+ from BBB-. The IDRs of the remaining subsidiaries were also lowered one notch to BBB- from BBB, the senior unsecured ratings were lowered (where applicable) one notch to BBB from BBB+, and the senior secured ratings were lowered (where applicable) one notch to BBB+ from A-. The outlook for FE and its subsidiaries remains negative.

On November 24, 2020, Moody’s downgraded the ratings of FE Corp, including its senior unsecured rating to Ba1 from Baa3. Moody’s also assigned a Ba1 Corporate Family Rating to FE and withdrew FE’s Baa3 Issuer Rating. The outlook for FE remains negative. Additionally, the outlooks for OE, TE, CE, and FET were changed to negative from stable.

On November 24, 2020, S&P downgraded FE and its subsidiaries issuer credit ratings to BB from BB+ and affirmed the BB issuer credit rating of AGC. The senior unsecured ratings on FE and FET were lowered to BB from BB+. The subsidiary senior unsecured ratings were lowered, where applicable, to BB+ from BBB-, and the senior secured ratings, where applicable, were lowered to BBB from BBB+. The ratings remain on CreditWatch Negative.

On December 17, 2020, Moody’s assigned senior secured ratings of A3 to PE and A1 to WP.

On December 21, 2020, S&P assigned senior secured ratings of BBB to PE, Penn and WP.

As of December 31, 2020, $20 million of collateral has been posted by FE or its subsidiaries, of which, $19 million was posted as a result of the credit rating downgrades in the fourth quarter of 2020.

The applicable undrawn and drawn margin on the FE and FET credit facilities are subject to ratings-based pricing grids. The applicable fee paid on the undrawn commitments under the FE and FET credit facilities are based on FE and FET’s senior unsecured non-credit enhanced debt ratings as determined by S&P and Moody’s. The fee paid on actual borrowings are determined based on each borrower’s senior unsecured non-credit enhanced debt ratings as determined by S&P and Moody’s.

The interest rate payable on approximately $3.85 billion in FE’s senior unsecured notes are subject to adjustments from time to time if the ratings on the notes from any one or more of S&P, Moody’s and Fitch decreases to a rating set forth in the applicable documents. Generally a one-notch downgrade by the applicable rating agency may result in a 25 bps coupon rate increase beginning at BB, Ba1, and BB+ for S&P, Moody’s and Fitch, respectively, to the extent such rating is applicable to the series of outstanding senior unsecured notes, during the next interest period, subject to an aggregate cap of 2% from issuance interest rate.

Debt capacity is subject to the consolidated debt-to-total-capitalization limits in the credit facilities previously discussed. As of December 31, 2020, FE and its subsidiaries could issue additional debt of approximately $4.8 billion, or incur a $2.6 billion reduction to equity, and remain within the limitations of the financial covenants required by the FE credit facility.

Changes in Cash Position

As of December 31, 2020, FirstEnergy had $1,734 million of cash and cash equivalents and approximately $67 million of restricted cash compared to $627 million of cash and cash equivalents and approximately $52 million of restricted cash as of December 31, 2019, on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Cash Flows From Operating Activities

FirstEnergy']:
Note 15. Revenue Recognition 121

['s Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows combine cash flows from discontinued operations with cash flows from continuing operations within each cash flow category. The following table summarizes the major classes of operating cash flow items from discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- -- ---- ---- ---- - ----- - ---
 For the Years Ended December 31,
(In millions) 2020 2019 2018

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Income from discontinued operations $ 76 $ 8 $ 326
Gain on disposal, net of tax (76) (59) (435)
Depreciation and amortization, including nuclear fuel, regulatory assets, net, intangible assets and deferred debt-related costs — — 110
Deferred income taxes and investment tax credits, net — 47 61
Unrealized (gain) loss on derivative transactions — — (10)

47

Cash Flows From Financing Activities

Cash provided from financing activities was $2,607 million, $656 million, and $1,394 million in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. The following table summarizes new equity and debt financing, redemptions, repayments, make-whole premiums paid on debt redemptions short-term borrowings and dividends:

---------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ------- ---- ----- ---- ----- ------- - -------
 For the Years Ended December 31,
Securities Issued or Redeemed / Repaid 2020 2019 2018
 (In millions)
New Issues
Preferred stock issuance $ — $ — $ 1,616
Common stock issuance — — 850
Unsecured notes 3,250 1,850 850
PCRBs — — 74

FMBs 175 450 50
Term loan — — 500

 $ 3,425 $ 2,300 $ 3,940

Redemptions / Repayments
Unsecured notes $ (250) $ (725) $ (555)
PCRBs — — (216)
FMBs (50) (1) (325)
Term loan (750) — (1,450)
Senior secured notes (64) (63) (62)

 $ (1,114) $ (789) $ (2,608)

Tender premiums paid on debt redemptions $ — $ — $ (89)

Short-term borrowings, net $ 1,200 $ — $ 950

Preferred stock dividend payments $ — $ (6) $ (61)

Common stock dividend payments $ (845) $ (814) $ (711)

On February 20, 2020, FE issued $1.75 billion in senior unsecured notes in three separate series: (i) $300 million aggregate principal amount of 2.050% Notes, Series A, due 2025, (ii) $600 million aggregate principal amount of 2.650% Notes, Series B, due 2030 and (iii) $850 million aggregate principal amount of 3.400% Notes, Series C, due 2050. Proceeds from the issuance of the notes, together with cash on hand, were used: (i) to repay the entire $750 million two-year term loan due September 2021, (ii) to make the $853 million in bankruptcy settlement payments and $125 million tax sharing agreement payment with the FES Debtors as discussed above, (iii) to repay $250 million of the $1 billion outstanding 364-day term loan due September 2020, and (iv) for working capital needs and general corporate purposes.

On March 31, 2020, MAIT issued $125 million of 3.60% senior unsecured notes due 2032 and $125 million of 3.70% senior unsecured notes due 2035. Proceeds from the issuance of the notes were used: (i) to refinance existing debt, (ii) for capital expenditures, and (iii) for general corporate purposes.

On April 20, 2020, PN issued $125 million of 3.61% senior unsecured notes due 2032 and $125 million of 3.71% senior unsecured notes due 2035. Proceeds of the issuance of the notes were used: (i) to refinance indebtedness, including short-term borrowings incurred under the FirstEnergy regulated money pool to repay a portion of the $250 million aggregate principle amount of PN’s 5.20% Senior Notes due April 1, 2020, (ii) to fund capital expenditures, (iii) to fund general corporate purposes, or (iv) for any combination of the above.

On June 8, 2020, FE issued $750 million in senior unsecured notes in two separate series: (i) $300 million aggregate principal amounts of 1.600% Notes, Series A, due 2026 and (ii) $450 million aggregate principal amount of 2.250% Notes, Series B, due 2030. Proceeds from the issuance of the notes were used to repay all amounts outstanding under the 364-day term loan due September 2020.

48

On June 29, 2020, PE issued $75 million of 2.67% FMBs due 2032 and $100 million of 3.43% FMBs due 2051. Proceeds of the issuance of the FMBs were used to repay short-term borrowings under the FirstEnergy regulated money pool, to fund capital expenditures, and for general corporate purposes.

On July 20, 2020, CEI issued $150 million of 2.77% senior unsecured notes due 2034 and $100 million of 3.23% senior unsecured notes due 2040. Proceeds from the issuance of the notes were used to refinance existing short-term borrowings, to fund capital expenditures, and for general corporate purposes.

    Cash Flows From Investing Activities

Cash used for investing activities in 2020 principally represented cash used for property additions. The following table summarizes investing activities for 2020, 2019 and 2018:

-------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - -----
 For the Years Ended December 31,
Cash Used for (Provided from) Investing Activities 2020 2019 2018
 (In millions)
Property Additions:
Regulated Distribution $ 1,514 $ 1,473 $ 1,411
Regulated Transmission 1,067 1,090 1,104

Corporate/Other 76 102 160
Proceeds from asset sales (2) (47) (425)
Investments 22 38 54
Notes receivable from affiliated companies — — 500
Asset removal costs 224 217 218
Other 7 — (4)
 $ 2,908 $ 2,873 $ 3,018

FirstEnergy']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
(4)Amounts under contract with fixed or minimum quantities based on estimated annual requirements.
(5)Amounts represent committed capital expenditures as of December 31, 2020.

Excluded from the table above are estimates for the cash outlays from power purchase contracts entered into by most of the Utilities and under which they procure the power supply necessary to provide generation service to their customers who do not choose an alternative supplier. Although actual amounts will be determined by future customer behavior and consumption levels, management currently estimates these cash outlays will be approximately $2.7 billion in 2021.

The table above also excludes regulatory liabilities (see Note 14, "]:
(4)Total contractual obligations exclude our gross unrecognized tax benefits and accrued interest and penalties totaling $70.0 million as of November 30, 2020, because we are unable to make reasonable estimates as to the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. We are subject to the usual obligations associated with entering into contracts (including option contracts) for the purchase, development and sale of real estate in the routine conduct of our business. Option contracts for the purchase of land generally reduces our financial risk and costs of capital associated with land holdings. At November 30, 2020, we had access to 119,283 homesites through option contracts with third parties and unconsolidated entities in which we have investments. At November 30, 2020, we had $414.2 million of non-refundable option deposits and pre-acquisition costs related to certain of these homesites and had posted $87.5 million of letters of credit in lieu of cash deposits under certain land and option contracts. At November 30, 2020, we had letters of credit outstanding in the amount of $1.0 billion (which included the $87.5 million of letters of credit discussed above). These letters of credit are generally posted either with regulatory bodies to guarantee our performance of certain development and construction activities, or in lieu of cash deposits on option contracts, for insurance risks, credit enhancements and as other collateral. Additionally, at November 30, 2020, we had outstanding surety bonds of $3.1 billion including performance surety bonds related to site improvements at various projects (including certain projects of our joint ventures) and financial surety bonds. Although significant development and construction activities have been completed related to these site improvements, these bonds are generally not released until all of the development and construction activities are completed. As of November 30, 2020, there were approximately $1.6...

["), AROs (see Note 13, "]:
(13)The restrictive covenants set forth in Article IV of the Base Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes. Section 1.3.Transfer and Exchange. This Section 1.3 shall replace Section 2.7 and the first two paragraphs of Section 2.14.2 of the Base Indenture with respect to the Notes only. 1.3.1.Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes. A Global Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes will be exchanged by the Company for Certificated Notes if: (a)the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 120 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary; (b)the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Certificated Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee; or (c)there has occurred and is continuing a Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes. 5 Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (a), (b) or (c) above, Certificated Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.8 and 2.11 of the Base Indenture. Except as otherwise permitted and/or required by the Indenture, every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 1.3 or Section 2.8 or 2.11 of the Base Indenture, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note f...

['s pension and OPEB plan assets gained approximately 11.6% and 12.5%, respectively.

52

Interest Rate Risk

FirstEnergy’s exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates is reduced since a significant portion of debt has fixed interest rates, as noted in the table below. FirstEnergy is subject to the inherent interest rate risks related to refinancing maturing debt by issuing new debt securities.

------------------------------------------------- ------------- --- ---- --- ---- ----- ---- - ---- ----- ----------- ----- ----- ---------- --- - ----- --- - - ------ - ------ - ------
Comparison of Carrying Value to Fair Value
Year of Maturity 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 There-after Total Fair Value
 (In millions)
Assets:
Investments Other Than Cash and Cash Equivalents:
Fixed Income $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 276 $ 276 $ 401
Average interest rate — % — % — % — % — % 4.0 % 4.0 %

Liabilities:
Long-term Debt:
Fixed rate $ 132 $ 1,143 $ 1,194 $ 1,246 $ 2,023 $ 16,639 $ 22,377 $ 25,465
Average interest rate 3.7 % 4.1 % 4.1 % 4.7 % 3.8 % 4.6 % 4.5 %

FirstEnergy recognizes net actuarial gains or losses for its pension and OPEB plans in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and whenever a plan is determined to qualify for a remeasurement. A primary factor contributing to these actuarial gains and losses are changes in the discount rates used to value pension and OPEB obligations as of the measurement date and the difference between expected and actual returns on the plans’ assets.

CREDIT RISK

Credit risk is the risk that FirstEnergy would incur a loss as a result of nonperformance by counterparties of their contractual obligations. FirstEnergy maintains credit policies and procedures with respect to counterparty credit (including requirement that counterparties maintain specified credit ratings) and require other assurances in the form of credit support or collateral in certain circumstance in order to limit counterparty credit risk. In addition, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, FirstEnergy has increased reviews of counterparties, customers and industries that have been negatively impacted, which could affect meeting contractual obligations with FirstEnergy. FirstEnergy has concentrations of suppliers and customers among electric utilities, financial institutions and energy marketing and trading companies. These concentrations may impact FirstEnergy']:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Convertible Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of convertible preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2019 and 2020, no shares were issued or outstanding. Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. Share Repurchases In July 2020, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to an additional $28.0 billion of its Class C capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020, we repurchased and subsequently retired 15.3 million and 21.5 million shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of $18.4 billion and $31.1 billion, respectively.

['s part to comply with the reliability standards for its bulk electric system could result in the imposition of financial penalties, or obligations to upgrade or build transmission facilities, that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

ATSI Transmission Formula Rate

On May 1, 2020, ATSI filed amendments to its formula rate to recover regulatory assets for certain costs that ATSI incurred as a result of its 2011 move from MISO to PJM, certain costs allocated to ATSI by FERC for transmission projects that were constructed by other MISO transmission owners, certain income tax-related adjustments, including, but not limited to impacts from the Tax Act discussed further below, and certain costs for transmission-related vegetation management programs. The amount on FirstEnergy’s Consolidated Balance Sheet for these regulatory assets was approximately $79 million and $73 million, as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. Per prior FERC orders, ATSI included a “cost-benefit study” to support recovery of ATSI’s costs to move to PJM, and the MISO transmission project costs that were allocated to ATSI. Certain intervenors filed protests of the formula rate amendments on May 29, 2020, and ATSI filed a reply on June 15, 2020. On June 30, 2020, FERC issued an initial order accepting the tariff amendments subject to refund, suspending the effective date for five months to be effective December 1, 2020, and setting the matter for hearing and settlement proceedings. ATSI is engaged in settlement negotiations with the other parties to the formula rate amendments proceeding.

61

FERC Actions on Tax Act

On March 15, 2018, FERC initiated proceedings on the question of how to address possible changes to ADIT and bonus depreciation as a result of the Tax Act. Such possible changes could impact FERC-jurisdictional rates, including transmission rates. On November 21, 2019, FERC issued a final rule (Order No. 864). Order No. 864 requires utilities with transmission formula rates to update their formula rate templates to include mechanisms to (i) deduct any excess ADIT from or add any deficient ADIT to their rate base; (ii) raise or lower their income tax allowances by any amortized excess or deficient ADIT; and (iii) incorporate a new permanent worksheet into their rates that will annually track information related to excess or deficient ADIT. Per FERC directives, ATSI submitted its compliance filing on May 1, 2020. MAIT submitted its compliance filing on June 1, 2020. Certain intervenors filed protests of the compliance filings, to which ATSI and MAIT responded. On October 28, 2020, FERC staff requested additional information about ATSI’s proposed rate base adjustment mechanism, and ATSI submitted the requested information on November 25, 2020. On May 15, 2020, TrAIL submitted its compliance filing and on June 1, 2020, PATH submitted its required compliance filing. These compliance filings each remain pending before FERC. MP, WP and PE (as holders of a “stated” transmission rate) are addressing these requirements in the transmission formula rates amendments that were filed on October 29, 2020. JCP&L is addressing these requirements as part of its pending transmission formula rate case.

Transmission ROE Methodology

FERC’s methodology for calculating electric transmission utility ROE has been in transition as a result of an April 14, 2017 ruling by the D.C. Circuit that vacated FERC’s then-effective methodology. On May 21, 2020, FERC issued Opinion No. 569-A that changed FERC’s ROE methodology. Under this methodology FERC established an ROE that is based on three financial models – discounted cash flow, capital-asset pricing, and risk premium – to calculate a composite zone of reasonableness. FERC noted that utilities could, in utility-specific proceedings, ask to have the expected earnings methodology included in calculating the utility’s authorized ROE. FERC also noted that, going forward, it will divide that zone into three equal parts, to be used for high risk, normal risk, and low risk utilities. A given utility will be assigned to one of these three parts of the zone of reasonableness, and its ROE will be set at the median or midpoint of the other utilities that are in the applicable third of the zone. FirstEnergy filed a request for rehearing, which FERC denied on July 22, 2020. On November 19, 2020, FERC issued Opinion No. 569-B, which affirmed the Opinion No. 569-A rulings. FirstEnergy initiated, but subsequently withdrew, appeals of these orders. Appeals of Opinion Nos. 569, 569-A and 569-B are pending before the D.C. Circuit. Any changes to FERC’s transmission rate ROE and incentive policies would be applied on a prospective basis.

On March 20, 2020, FERC initiated a rulemaking proceeding on the transmission rate incentives provisions of Section 219 of the 2005 Energy Policy Act. Initial comments were submitted July 1, 2020, and reply comments were filed on July 16, 2020. FirstEnergy participated through EEI and through a consortium of PJM Transmission Owners. This proceeding is pending before FERC.

JCP&L Transmission Formula Rate

On October 30, 2019, JCP&L filed tariff amendments with FERC to convert JCP&L’s existing stated transmission rate to a forward-looking formula transmission rate. JCP&L requested that the tariff amendments become effective January 1, 2020. On December 19, 2019, FERC issued its initial order in the case, allowing JCP&L to transition to a forward-looking formula rate as of January 1, 2020 as requested, subject to refund, pending further hearing and settlement proceedings. JCP&L and the parties to the FERC proceeding subsequently were able to reach settlement, and on February 2, 2021, a settlement agreement was filed for approval by FERC.

Allegheny Power Zone Transmission Formula Rate Filings

On October 29, 2020, MP, PE and WP filed tariff amendments with FERC to convert their existing stated transmission rate to a forward-looking formula transmission rate, effective January 1, 2021. In addition, on October 30, 2020, KATCo filed a proposed new tariff to establish a forward-looking formula rate and requested that the new rate become effective January 1, 2021. In its filing, KATCo explained that while it currently owns no transmission assets, it may build new transmission facilities in the Allegheny zone, and that it may seek required state and federal authorizations to acquire transmission assets from PE and WP by January 1, 2022. These transmission rate filings were approved by FERC on December 31, 2020, subject to refund, pending further hearing and settlement proceedings. MP, PE and WP, and KATCo are engaged in settlement negotiations with the other parties to the formula rate proceedings. KATCo will be included in the Regulated Transmission reportable segment.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Various federal, state and local authorities regulate FirstEnergy with regard to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal, and other environmental matters. While FirstEnergy']:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and...

['s normal business operations pending against FE or its subsidiaries. The loss or range of loss in these matters is not expected to be material to FE or its subsidiaries. The other potentially material items not otherwise discussed above are described under Note 14, "]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 103

[" and Note 15, “Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional details on the government investigation and regulatory matters related to the investigation of HB 6.

We are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence our operating environment. As previously disclosed, among the matters considered with respect to the determination by the committee of independent members of the Board of Directors to terminate certain former members of senior management for violating certain FirstEnergy policies and its code of conduct related to a payment of approximately $4 million made in early 2019 in connection with the termination of a purported consulting agreement, as amended, which had been in place since 2013. The counterparty to such agreement was an entity associated with an individual who subsequently was appointed to a full-time role as an Ohio government official directly involved in regulating the Ohio Companies, including with respect to distribution rates. FirstEnergy believes that payments under the consulting agreement may have been for purposes other than those represented

9

within the consulting agreement. The matter is a subject of the ongoing internal investigation related to the government investigations.

Any appearance of non-compliance with anti-corruption laws, as well as any alleged failures to comply with anti-corruption laws, could have an adverse impact on our reputation or relationships with regulatory authorities, and result in a material inquiry or investigation by such federal, state and local regulatory agencies, and result in adverse rulings against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, operating results and operations.

For example, there are several regulatory matters associated with the ongoing governmental investigations including, but not limited to, the following:
•On September 15, 2020, the PUCO opened a new proceeding to review the political and charitable spending by the Ohio Companies in support of HB 6 and the subsequent referendum effort, directing the Ohio Companies to show cause, demonstrating that the costs of any political or charitable spending in support of HB 6, or the subsequent referendum effort, were not included, directly or indirectly, in any rates or charges paid by ratepayers.
•On November 4, 2020, the PUCO initiated an additional corporate separation audit as a result of the termination of certain members of senior management.
•On December 30, 2020, the PUCO reinstated the requirement that the Ohio Companies file a distribution rate case by May 31, 2024, which requirement had previously been eliminated by the PUCO in November 2019.
•Also on December 30, 2020, the PUCO reopened the DMR audit docket, and directed PUCO staff to solicit a third-party auditor and conduct a full review of the DMR to ensure funds collected from ratepayers through the DMR were only used for the purposes established in ESP IV.
•On January 26, 2021, staff of FERC']:
Note 15. Revenue Recognition 121

['s Division of Audits and Accounting, including activities related to lobbying and governmental affairs activities concerning HB 6.
•In connection with the partial settlement with the OAG and other parties, the Ohio Companies filed an application with the PUCO on February 1, 2021, to set the respective decoupling riders (Rider CSR) to zero and, in a related action, the Ohio Companies will not seek to recover lost distribution revenue from residential and commercial customers; as a result, FirstEnergy recognized a $108 million pre-tax charge ($84 million after-tax) in the fourth quarter of 2020 and $77 million (pre-tax) of which is associated with forgoing collection of lost distribution revenue.

While FirstEnergy is committed to pursuing an open dialogue with stakeholders in an appropriate manner with respect to the numerous regulatory proceedings currently underway, the rates our Utilities and transmission operating companies are allowed to charge may be decreased as a result of actions taken by FERC or by a state regulatory commission to which our Utilities is subject to jurisdiction, whether as a result of the ongoing government investigations, the appearance of non-compliance with anti-corruption laws, or otherwise. Also, in connection with the internal investigation, FirstEnergy recently identified certain transactions, which, in some instances, extended back ten years or more, including vendor services, that were either improperly classified, misallocated to certain of the Utilities and Transmission Companies, or lacked proper supporting documentation. These transactions resulted in amounts collected from customers that were immaterial to FirstEnergy, and the Utilities and Transmission Companies will be working with the appropriate regulatory agencies to address these amounts.

We are unable to predict the adverse impacts on federal or state regulatory matters, including with respect to rates, and, therefore, any of these risks could impact us significantly beyond expectations. Moreover, we are unable to predict the potential for any additional regulatory actions, any of which could exacerbate these risks or expose us to adverse outcomes in pending or future rate cases, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows.

We Have Identified a Material Weakness in our Internal Controls over Financial Reporting. If We Fail to Remediate such Material Weakness or Otherwise Fail to Develop, Implement and Maintain Effective Internal Controls in Future Periods, Our Ability to Report Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Accurately and on a Timely Basis Could Be Adversely Affected

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

As previously disclosed, a committee of independent members of our Board of Directors is directing an internal investigation related to ongoing government investigations. In connection with our internal investigation, such committee determined that certain former members of senior management, including our former chief executive officer, violated certain FirstEnergy policies and our code of conduct. Such former members of senior management did not maintain and promote a control environment with an appropriate tone of compliance in certain areas of FirstEnergy’s business, nor sufficiently promote, monitor or enforce adherence to certain FirstEnergy policies and its code of conduct. Furthermore, certain former members of senior management did not reasonably ensure that relevant information was communicated within our organization and not withheld from our independent directors, our Audit Committee, and our independent auditor. Among the matters considered with respect to the determination by the committee of independent members of the Board of Directors that certain former members of senior management violated certain FirstEnergy policies and its code of conduct related to a payment of approximately $4 million made in early 2019 in connection with the termination of a purported consulting agreement, as amended, which had been in place

10

since 2013. The counterparty to such agreement was an entity associated with an individual who subsequently was appointed to a full-time role as an Ohio government official directly involved in regulating the Ohio Companies, including with respect to distribution rates. FirstEnergy believes that payments under the consulting agreement may have been for purposes other than those represented within the consulting agreement. The matter is a subject of the ongoing internal investigation related to the government investigations.

During the preparation of FirstEnergy’s financial statements as of and for the quarter ended September 30, 2020, FirstEnergy identified a material weakness in that these certain former members of senior management did not set an appropriate tone at the top as discussed above, which are inconsistent with the standards to which FirstEnergy’s Board of Directors and senior management are committed.

This control deficiency did not result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements. However, this control deficiency could have resulted in material misstatements to the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not have been prevented or detected. Accordingly, our management has concluded that this control deficiency constitutes a material weakness.

A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.

We are in the process of remediating the identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.

We cannot assure you that we will adequately remediate the material weakness or that additional material weaknesses in our internal controls will not be identified in the future. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those internal control systems determined to be effective can provide only a level of reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in the implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, or could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. These misstatements could result in restatements of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Further, if we are unable to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, may violate applicable stock exchange listing rules or suffer other adverse regulatory consequences and may breach the covenants under our credit facilities. There could also be a negative reaction in the price of our common stock due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. See “Item 9a. Controls and Procedures” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the material weakness and our remediation plans.

Failure to Comply with Debt Covenants in our Credit Agreements or Conditions Could Adversely Affect our Ability to Execute Future Borrowings and/or Require Early Repayment, and Could Restrict our Ability to Obtain Additional or Replacement Financing on Acceptable Terms or at All

Our debt and credit agreements contain various financial and other covenants including a consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio of no more than 65% measured at the end of each fiscal quarter.

Our credit agreements contain certain negative and affirmative covenants. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our FE credit facility and FET credit facility may be affected by events related to the ongoing government investigations or otherwise.

On November 17, 2020, we and certain of our subsidiaries entered into amendments to the FE credit facility and the FET credit facility, respectively. The amendments provide for modifications and/or waivers of: (i) certain representations and warranties and (ii) certain affirmative and negative covenants, contained therein, which allowed FirstEnergy to regain compliance with such provisions. The non-compliance for which the waiver was necessary stemmed from the payment of approximately $4 million made in early 2019 in connection with the termination of a purported consulting agreement, as amended, which had been in place since 2013 with an entity associated with an individual who subsequently was appointed to a full-time role as an Ohio government official directly involved in regulating the Ohio Companies, including with respect to distribution rates. Among other things, the amendment to the FE credit facility reduces the sublimit applicable to FE to $1.5 billion, and the amendments increased certain tiers of pricing applicable to borrowings under the credit facilities. In addition, we may be required to seek additional covenant waivers in future periods, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such waivers on favorable terms, or at all.

A breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreements, including any breach related to alleged failures to comply with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, could result in an event of default under such agreements, and we would not be able to access our credit facilities for additional borrowings and letters of credit while any default exists. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, all amounts outstanding under our credit facilities, which was $2.2 billion as of February 15, 2021, could be declared to be immediately due and payable and all applicable commitments to extend further credit could be terminated. If indebtedness under our credit facilities is accelerated, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay the

11

indebtedness. In addition, certain events, including but not limited to any covenant breach related to alleged failures to comply with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, an event of default under our credit agreements, and the acceleration of applicable commitments under such facilities could restrict our ability to obtain additional or replacement financing on acceptable terms or at all. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facilities and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities.

Risks Associated with the Global Pandemic

The COVID-19 Global Pandemic Has Impacted Us and Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Financial Condition

The outbreak of COVID-19 has become a global pandemic and has impacted FirstEnergy. For instance, FirstEnergy’s Utilities discontinued power shutoffs as of March 13, 2020, across its five-state service territory and ceased billing for certain late payment charges, and while some of these have been rescinded, similar actions could occur in the future. Furthermore, in response to the pandemic and related mitigation measures, FirstEnergy has implemented its pandemic plan as well as other precautionary measures on behalf of its customers and employees, including supporting remote work opportunities for most of its employees. While FirstEnergy believes that all these measures have been necessary or appropriate, they have resulted in additional costs and may adversely impact its business and results of operation in the future or expose it to additional unknown risks.

Although it is not possible to predict the ultimate impact of COVID-19, including on FirstEnergy’s business, results of operations, cash flows or financial positions, such impacts that may be material include, but are not limited to: (i) lower commercial and industrial customer demand for electricity, (ii) impacts of rapidly-changing governmental and public health directives to contain and combat the pandemic together with executive and legislative initiatives imposing a moratorium on utility disconnections, (iii) increased credit risk, including increased failure or delay by customers to make their utility payments, (iv) reduced availability and productivity of its employees, (v) increased operational risks as a result of remote work arrangements, including the potential effects on internal controls, as well as cybersecurity risks and increased vulnerability to security breaches, information technology disruptions and other similar events, (vi) delays and disruptions in the availability of and timely delivery of materials and components used in its operations, as well as increased costs for such materials and components, (vii) continued volatility in market prices for our securities, and (viii) hampering our ability to access funds from financial institutions and the capital markets on the same or reasonably similar terms as were available to FirstEnergy before the COVID-19 pandemic. To the extent the duration of any of these conditions extends for a longer period of time, the adverse impact will generally be more severe.

Risks Associated with Regulation of Our Distribution and Transmission Businesses
We are Focusing on Growing Our Regulated Transmission and Regulated Distribution Operations. Whether This Investment Strategy Will Deliver the Desired Result Is Subject to Certain Risks Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition
We focus on capitalizing on investment opportunities available to our Regulated Transmission and Regulated Distribution operations as we focus on delivering enhanced customer service and reliability. The success of these efforts will depend, in part, on successful recovery of our transmission investments. Factors that may affect rate recovery of our transmission investments include: (1) FERC’s timely approval of rates to recover such investments; (2) whether the investments are included in PJM']:
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 135

['s Division of Audits and Accounting, including activities related to lobbying and governmental affairs activities concerning HB 6. The outcome of any of these lawsuits, investigations and audit are uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on FE’s or its subsidiaries’ financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. No contingency has been reflected in FirstEnergy’s consolidated financial statements as a loss is neither probable, nor is a loss or range of a loss reasonably estimable.

Internal Investigation Relating to United States v. Larry Householder, et al.

As previously disclosed, a committee of independent members of the Board of Directors is directing an internal investigation related to ongoing government investigations. In connection with FirstEnergy’s internal investigation, such committee determined on October 29, 2020, to terminate FirstEnergy’s Chief Executive Officer, Charles E. Jones, together with two other executives: Dennis M. Chack, Senior Vice President of Product Development, Marketing, and Branding; and Michael J. Dowling, Senior Vice President of External Affairs. Each of these terminated executives violated certain FirstEnergy policies and its code of conduct. These executives were terminated as of October 29, 2020. Such former members of senior management did not maintain and promote a control environment with an appropriate tone of compliance in certain areas of FirstEnergy’s business, nor sufficiently promote, monitor or enforce adherence to certain FirstEnergy policies and its code of conduct. Furthermore, certain former members of senior management did not reasonably ensure that relevant information was communicated within our organization and not withheld from our independent directors, our Audit Committee, and our independent auditor. Among the matters considered with respect to the determination by the committee of independent members of the Board of Directors that certain former members of senior management violated certain FirstEnergy policies and its code of conduct related to a payment of approximately $4 million made in early 2019 in connection with the termination of a purported consulting agreement, as amended, which had been in place since 2013. The counterparty to such agreement was an entity associated with an individual who subsequently was appointed to a full-time role as an Ohio government official directly involved in regulating the Ohio Companies, including with respect to distribution rates. FirstEnergy believes that payments under the consulting agreement may have been for purposes other than those represented within the consulting agreement. Immediately following these terminations, the independent members of its Board appointed Mr. Steven E. Strah to the position of Acting Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Christopher D. Pappas, a current member of the Board, to the temporary position of Executive Director, each effective as of October 29, 2020. Mr. Donald T. Misheff will continue to serve as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board. Additionally, on November 8, 2020, Robert P. Reffner, Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, and Ebony L. Yeboah-Amankwah, Vice President, General Counsel, and Chief Ethics Officer, were separated from FirstEnergy due to inaction and conduct that the Board determined was influenced by the improper tone at the top. The matter is a subject of the ongoing internal investigation as it relates to the government investigations.

Nuclear Plant Matters

On October 15, 2019, JCP&L, ME, PN and GPUN executed an asset purchase and sale agreement with TMI-2 Solutions, LLC, a subsidiary of EnergySolutions, LLC, concerning the transfer and dismantlement of TMI-2. This transfer of TMI-2 to TMI-2 Solutions, LLC will include the transfer of: (i) the ownership and operating NRC licenses for TMI-2; (ii) the external trusts for the decommissioning and environmental remediation of TMI-2; and (iii) related liabilities. On August 10, 2020, JCP&L, ME, PN, GPUN, TMI-2 Solutions, LLC, and the PA DEP reached a settlement agreement regarding the decommissioning of TMI-2. On December 2, 2020, the NJBPU issued an order approving the transfer and sale under the conditions requested by Rate Counsel and agreed to by JCP&L. Also, on December 2, 2020, the NRC issued its order approving the license transfer as requested. With the receipt of all required regulatory approvals, the transaction was consummated on December 18, 2020. See Note 1, "]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)This primarily reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. 28  EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However,...

[" for additional discussion.

FES Bankruptcy

On March 31, 2018, FES, including its consolidated subsidiaries, FG, NG, FE Aircraft Leasing Corp., Norton Energy

66

Storage L.L.C. and FGMUC, and FENOC filed voluntary petitions for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court and emerged on February 27, 2020. See Note 3, "]:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

['s accounting policies require significant judgment regarding estimates and assumptions underlying the amounts included in the financial statements. Additional information regarding the application of accounting policies is included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue Recognition

FirstEnergy follows the accrual method of accounting for revenues, recognizing revenue for electricity that has been delivered to customers but not yet billed through the end of the accounting period. The determination of electricity sales to individual customers is based on meter readings, which occur on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the end of each month, electricity delivered to customers since the last meter reading is estimated and a corresponding accrual for unbilled sales is recognized. The determination of unbilled sales and revenues requires management to make estimates regarding electricity available for retail load, transmission and distribution line losses, demand by customer class, applicable billing demands, weather-related impacts, number of days unbilled and tariff rates in effect within each customer class. FirstEnergy has elected the optional invoice practical expedient for most of its revenues and utilizes the optional short-term contract exemption for transmission revenues due to the annual establishment of revenue requirements, which eliminates the need to provide certain revenue disclosures regarding unsatisfied performance obligations. See Note 2, "]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide our senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the "Business Overview" within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions. We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analyt...

[" for additional information.

Regulatory Accounting

FirstEnergy’s Regulated Distribution and Regulated Transmission segments are subject to regulations that set the prices (rates) the Utilities and the Transmission Companies are permitted to charge customers based on costs that the regulatory agencies determine are permitted to be recovered. At times, regulators permit the future recovery through rates of costs that would be currently charged to expense by an unregulated company. This ratemaking process results in the recording of regulatory assets and liabilities based on anticipated future cash inflows and outflows. Management applies judgment in evaluating the evidence available to assess the probability of recovery of regulatory assets from customers, including, but not limited to evaluating evidence related to precedent for similar items experienced at the Company and comparable companies within similar jurisdictions, as well as assessing progress of communications between the Company and regulators. Certain regulatory assets are recorded based on prior precedent or anticipated recovery based on rate making premises without a specific rate order. FirstEnergy regularly reviews these assets to assess their ultimate recoverability within the approved regulatory guidelines. Impairment risk associated with these assets relates to potentially adverse legislative, judicial or regulatory actions in the future. See Note 14, "]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 103
