================================================================================
CIK: 0000927066
Company Name: DAVITA INC
Filing Date: 2022-02-11
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 02:26:25
================================================================================

Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations".
References to the "Notes" in the discussion below refer to the notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K at Item 15, "Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules" as referred from Part II Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

COVID-19 and its impact on our business
As noted above, the continued impacts and disruptions to our business in connection with of the COVID-19 pandemic could have a material adverse impact on our patients, teammates, physician partners, suppliers, business, operations, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or liquidity.
Operational and Financial Impacts
During this time of great and continued challenge, we continue our focus on the health, safety and well-being of our patients, teammates and physician partners and helping to ensure that our patients have the ability to maintain continuity of care throughout this crisis, whether in the hospital, outpatient or home setting. To that end, we have dedicated and continue to dedicate substantial resources in response to COVID-19, including the implementation of additional protocols and initiatives to help safely maintain continuity of care for our patients and help protect our caregivers. For example, we implemented dedicated care shifts for patients with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 and other enhanced clinical practices, including procuring additional equipment and clinical supplies, such as personal protective equipment (PPE). These efforts are part of a wider Prepare, Prevent, Respond and Recover program that we have implemented in connection with the pandemic, which also includes operational protocols such as the redistribution of teammates, machines and supplies across the country as needed and continued investment in and utilization of telehealth capabilities and the administration of COVID-19 vaccines. We also have maintained business process continuity during the pandemic by enabling most back office teammates to work remotely. We carefully monitor the efficacy of our response protocols and their impact on our operations and strategic priorities as the pandemic continues. Certain temporary changes made in response to the COVID-19 pandemic could become permanent, which could have an adverse impact on our business.
Due in part to these protocols and initiatives, we have incurred costs related to COVID-19 in 2021, and we expect to continue to incur extended costs in the future in connection with our response to COVID-19, and the cumulative impact of these costs could be material. Among other things, our response to COVID-19 has resulted in higher salary and wage expense, and we have provided, and may provide in the future, substantial financial support to our teammates, which may include relief reimbursement. We also continued to experience significant cost inflation on PPE in 2021, though certain other costs related to our COVID-19 response have decreased since the peak of the COVID-19 surge in the fourth quarter of 2020. We believe that the cost of these medical supplies will remain elevated and as our COVID-19 response continues, we expect to continue to incur extended and significant additional costs for these supplies, and we expect that certain of these increased costs may persist due to the overall challenges and disruptions of global supply chains. These global supply chain challenges have impacted the availability of certain of our equipment and clinical supplies. Prolonged strain on global supply chains may result in additional equipment and clinical supply shortages, disruptions, delays or associated price increases that could impact our ability to provide dialysis services or the cost of providing those services, among other things. On the other hand, our COVID-19 response has reduced certain other expenses, such as those related to teammate travel, though it remains uncertain how much of these reductions, if any, will persist after the pandemic subsides and more teammates return to their respective office locations.
Our business is labor intensive and our financial and operating results have been and continue to be sensitive to variations in labor-related costs and productivity. We have historically faced and expect to continue to face costs and difficulties in hiring and retaining caregivers due to a nationwide shortage of skilled clinical personnel. These challenges have been heightened by the increased demand for and demand upon such personnel attributed to the ongoing pandemic. As referenced above, the labor market is challenging and continues to experience volatility, uncertainty and labor supply shortages, particularly in healthcare. In addition, federal and state agencies have announced or released rules relating to COVID-19 vaccination requirements that relate to our teammates, providers and patients. Certain of these regulations are subject to ongoing legal challenge as further described in Part I, Item 1. Business of this Form 10-K under the heading "Government Regulation—COVID-19 Response". The cumulative impact of these mandates, some of which have already gone into effect, contributes further to the volatility and uncertainty in the labor market and may ultimately further exacerbate labor shortages. These conditions have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our ability to attract and retain employees, particularly clinical personnel. As part of our efforts in this highly competitive market, we have provided our teammates with additional compensation, among other things. In 2022, we expect to provide our teammates with higher than usual wage

60

increases, which will put additional pressure on our cost structure going forward. We have experienced staffing shortages and disruptions as a result of current labor market conditions and the current Omicron surge, and further staffing shortages or disruptions, if material, could lead to the unplanned closures of certain centers or adversely impact clinical operations, and may otherwise have a material adverse impact on our ability to provide dialysis services or the cost of providing those services, among other things. Prolonged volatility, uncertainty, labor supply shortages and other challenging labor market conditions, including, among other things, due to inflationary pressures or evolving monetary policies, could also have an adverse impact on our ability to execute on our strategic initiatives, and ultimately could have a material adverse impact on our labor costs, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
In 2021, treatment volumes reflected continued pressure primarily driven by the ongoing impact of COVID-19 on mortality rates for dialysis patients which has had a negative impact on our patient census. Because ESKD patients may be older than the average American and generally have comorbidities, several of which are risk factors for COVID-19, we believe the mortality rate of infected patients has been higher in the dialysis population than in the general population, and COVID-19 also could impact the CKD population differently. The recent surges associated with the Delta and Omicron variants led to a significant increase in COVID‑19 cases in our patient population. At the peak of the most recent surge in January 2022, the new case count was more than two times as high as the peak from winter 2020. While the mortality rate associated with this latest surge preliminarily appears to be lower than in prior surges, it is too early to provide a comprehensive assessment. The fourth quarter of 2021 saw a slight decrease in incremental mortality on an absolute basis compared to the third quarter of 2021. Over the longer term, we believe that changes in mortality in both the CKD and ESKD populations due to COVID-19 will continue to depend primarily on the infection rate, case fatality rate, the age and health status of affected patients, and access to and continued efficacy of vaccinations or other treatments or therapies, as well as willingness to be vaccinated. We expect that the impact of COVID-19 is likely to continue to negatively impact our revenue and non-acquired growth for a period of time even as the pandemic subsides due to the compounding impact of mortalities, among other things. However, determining the extent to which these impacts should be directly attributable to COVID-19 is difficult due to testing and reporting limitations, and other factors that may drive treatment volumes and new admissions over time, such as the number of transplants or deferred admissions. Depending on the ultimate severity and duration of the pandemic, the magnitude of these cumulative impacts could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to contain the virus have impacted the global economy, resulting in, among other things, volatility and uncertainty in labor market conditions as noted above. These impacts could ultimately result in a materially reduced share of our patients being covered by commercial insurance plans, with more patients being covered by lower-paying government insurance programs or being uninsured. These effects may persist after the pandemic subsides as, among other things, our patients could experience permanent changes in their insurance coverage as a result of changes to their employment status. In the event such a material reduction occurs in the share of our patients covered by commercial insurance plans, it would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Despite the broader economic conditions in the U.S. for the year ended December 31, 2021, our commercial mix in 2021 slightly improved as compared to our commercial mix in 2020. The ultimate impact of COVID-19 on our commercial mix will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and difficult to predict.
Federal, State and Local Government Response
The government response to COVID-19 has been wide-ranging and will continue to develop over time. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict the nature, timing or extent of the impact of such changes on the markets in which we conduct business or on the other participants that operate in those markets, or any potential changes to the extensive set of federal, state and local laws, regulations and requirements that govern our business, including for example, the COVID-19 vaccine mandates and similar state and local mandates referenced above.
We have worked with certain government agencies to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, and in certain cases have sought waivers of regulatory requirements. We have also contracted with the federal government to provide direct administration of COVID-19 vaccines to our patients and teammates at our clinics. Approximately 73% of our patients have received at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine and nearly all of our clinical teammates are fully vaccinated or have an exemption. Certain of these vaccines are currently available under emergency use authorizations, and there can be no assurance that our patients and caregivers will choose to receive a COVID-19 vaccine or that the vaccines will prove to be as safe and effective as currently understood by the scientific community, particularly as it may relate to variants of the virus. In addition, we may encounter difficulties with the availability and storage of the vaccines, or experience other complications related to administering the vaccines, some of which have multiple dose requirements, or may include the administration of "boosters". As of December 31, 2021, we had administered approximately 217,000 COVID-19 vaccines and boosters due in part to the state and federal vaccine allocations to dialysis providers. Certain state and federal agencies, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and CMS, have released requirements, or are in the process of modifying existing requirements associated with the continued protection of employees as it relates to COVID-19. These requirements related to,

61

among other things, initial and booster vaccines, PPE, fit-testing, surveillance testing of our teammates for COVID-19 and other increased obligations with which we must comply may further impact our costs, create operational challenges, negatively impact our ability to attract and retain employees and create a risk of non-compliance if we are not able to successfully implement such requirements. We operate in a complex and highly regulated environment, and the novel nature of our COVID-19 response, including, for example, with respect to regulatory waivers, our administration of the COVID-19 vaccines, and our efforts to comply with evolving rules and regulations, may increase our exposure to legal, regulatory and clinical risks.
In addition, federal COVID-19 relief legislation suspended the 2% Medicare sequestration from May 1, 2020 through December 31, 2021. The Protecting Medicare and American Farmers from Sequester Cuts Act, signed into law on December 10, 2021, extended the suspension of the 2% Medicare sequestration from December 31, 2021 through March 31, 2022, with 1% Medicare sequestration beginning April 1, 2022 through June 30, 2022 and 2% Medicare sequestration beginning July 1, 2022. While in effect, the suspension of sequestration has significantly increased, and will continue to significantly increase, our revenues.
We believe the ultimate impact of this public health crisis on the Company will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and difficult to predict, including among others the ultimate severity and duration of the pandemic; further spread or resurgence of the virus, including as a result of the emergence of new strains of the virus, such as the Delta and Omicron variants; COVID-19's impact on the chronic kidney disease (CKD) patient population and our patient population, including on the mortality of these patients; the availability, acceptance, impact and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines, treatments and therapies; the pandemic’s continuing impact on our revenue and non-acquired growth due to lower treatment volumes, the U.S. and global economies, unemployment, labor market conditions, inflation and monetary policies; the potential negative impact on our commercial mix or the number of patients covered by commercial insurance plans; continued increased COVID-related costs; supply chain challenges and disruptions; the responses of our competitors to the pandemic and related changes in the marketplace; the timing, scope and effectiveness of federal, state and local government responses to the continuing pandemic; and any potential changes to the extensive set of federal, state and local laws, regulations and requirements that govern our business. In many cases, the impact of the pandemic on us may persist even after the pandemic subsidies.
For additional discussion of the COVID-19 pandemic and our response, including its impact on us and related risks and uncertainties, please see the discussion in Part I Item 1. Business under the headings, "COVID-19 and its impact on our business" and "Human Capital Management," as well as the risk factor in Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading "We face various risks related to the dynamic and evolving novel coronavirus pandemic, many of which may have a material adverse impact on us."

62

Consolidated results of operations
The following table summarizes our revenues, operating income and adjusted operating income by line of business. See the discussion of our results for each line of business following this table. When multiple drivers are identified in the following discussion of results, they are listed in order of magnitude:

------------------------------------ ----------------------- ------ ------------- ----- ------ ------ ------- - ------ - --- -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2021 2020 Amount Percent
 (dollars in millions)
Revenues:
U.S. dialysis $ 10,667 $ 10,660 $ 7 0.1 %
Other - Ancillary services 1,047 1,053 (6) (0.6) %
Elimination of intersegment revenues (95) (162) 67 41.4 %
Total consolidated revenues $ 11,619 $ 11,551 $ 68 0.6 %

Operating income (loss):
U.S. dialysis $ 1,975 $ 1,918 $ 57 3.0 %
Other - Ancillary services (66) (76) 10 13.2 %
Corporate administrative support (112) (147) 35 23.8 %
Operating income $ 1,797 $ 1,695 $ 102 6.0 %

Adjusted operating income (loss):(1)
U.S. dialysis $ 1,975 $ 1,918 $ 57 3.0 %
Other - Ancillary services (66) (60) (6) (10.0) %
Corporate administrative support (112) (112) — — %
Adjusted operating income $ 1,797 $ 1,746 $ 51 2.9 %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

(1)For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income (loss) by reportable segment, see the "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below.

U.S. dialysis business
As of December 31, 2021, our U.S. dialysis business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services, operating 2,815 outpatient dialysis centers serving a total of approximately 203,100 patients, and contracted to provide hospital inpatient dialysis services in approximately 850 hospitals. We estimate that we have approximately a 36% share of the U.S. dialysis market based upon the number of patients we serve.
Approximately 91% of our 2021 consolidated revenues were derived directly from our U.S. dialysis business. The principal drivers of our U.S. dialysis revenues include    :
•our number of treatments, which is primarily a function of the number of chronic patients requiring approximately three in-center treatments per week as well as, to a lesser extent, the number of treatments for home-based dialysis and hospital inpatient dialysis; and
•our average dialysis patient service revenue per treatment, including the mix of patients with commercial plans and government programs as primary payor.
Within our U.S. dialysis business, our home-based dialysis and hospital inpatient dialysis services are operationally integrated with our outpatient dialysis centers and related laboratory services. Our outpatient, home-based and hospital inpatient dialysis services comprise approximately 76%, 18% and 6% of our U.S. dialysis revenues, respectively.
In the U.S., government dialysis-related payment rates are principally determined by federal Medicare and state Medicaid policy. For 2021, approximately 68% of our total U.S. dialysis patient services revenues were generated from government-based programs for services to approximately 90% of our total U.S. patients. These government-based programs are principally Medicare and Medicare Advantage, Medicaid and managed Medicaid plans, and other government plans, representing approximately 58%, 7% and 3% of our U.S. dialysis patient services revenues, respectively.
On October 29, 2021, CMS issued a final rule to update the ESRD PPS payment rate and policies, as described further above. CMS estimates the final rule will affect ESRD facilities' average reimbursement by a productivity-adjusted market

63

basket increase of 1.9% in 2022. In addition, the Protecting Medicare and American Farmers from Sequester Cuts Act extended the suspension of the 2% Medicare sequestration from December 31, 2021 through March 31, 2022, with 1% Medicare sequestration beginning April 1, 2022 through June 30, 2022 and 2% Medicare sequestration beginning July 1, 2022.
Dialysis payment rates from commercial payors vary and a major portion of our commercial rates are set at contracted amounts with payors and are subject to intense negotiation pressure. On average, dialysis-related payment rates from contracted commercial payors are significantly higher than Medicare, Medicaid and other government program payment rates, and therefore the percentage of commercial patients in relation to total patients represents a significant driver of our total average dialysis patient service revenue per treatment. Commercial payors (including hospital dialysis services) represent approximately 32% of U.S. dialysis patient services revenues.
For discussion of government reimbursement, the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system, Medicare Advantage and commercial reimbursement, see the discussion in Part I. Item 1. Business under the heading "U.S. dialysis business – Sources of revenue-concentrations and risks." For a discussion of operational, clinical and financial risks and uncertainties that we face in connection with the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system, see the risk factor in Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading "Our business is subject to a complex set of governmental laws, regulations and other requirements and any failure to adhere to those requirements, or any changes in those requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, could materially harm our stock price, and in some circumstances, could materially harm our reputation." For a discussion of operational, clinical and financial risks and uncertainties that we face in connection with commercial payors, see the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading "If the number or percentage of patients with higher-paying commercial insurance declines, if the average rates that commercial payors pay us decline, if patients in commercial plans are subject to restriction in plan designs, if we are unable to maintain contracts with payors with competitive terms, including, without limitation, reimbursement rates, scope and duration of coverage and in-network benefits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows."
Effective January 1, 2021, both oral and intravenous forms of calcimimetics were added to the ESRD PPS bundled payment, and as a result our operating income from calcimimetics was more stable in 2021 and will continue to be in the future as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 under the transitional drug add-on payment adjustment (TDAPA) model. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the oral and intravenous forms of calcimimetics were separately reimbursed through a TDAPA model based on a pass-through rate of the average sales price plus 0%, before sequestration.
Approximately 1% and 4% of our total U.S. dialysis patient services revenues for the years 2021 and 2020, respectively, were associated with the administration of separately-billable physician-prescribed pharmaceuticals, the majority of which relate to the administration of calcimimetics.
We anticipate that we will continue to experience increases in our operating costs in 2022 that may outpace any net Medicare, commercial or other rate increases that we may receive, which could significantly impact our operating results. In particular, we expect to continue experiencing increases in operating costs that are subject to inflation, such as labor and supply costs, including increases in maintenance costs, regardless of whether there is a compensating inflation-based increase in Medicare, commercial or other payor payment rates. We also continue to expect to incur additional COVID-19-related costs while the pandemic continues. In addition, we expect to continue to incur capital expenditures and associated depreciation and amortization to improve, renovate and maintain our facilities, equipment and information technology to meet evolving regulatory requirements and otherwise.
U.S. dialysis patient care costs are those costs directly associated with operating and supporting our dialysis centers, home-based dialysis programs and hospital inpatient dialysis programs, and consist principally of labor, benefits, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and other operating costs of the dialysis centers.
The principal drivers of our U.S. dialysis patient care costs include:
•clinical hours per treatment, labor rates and benefit costs;
•vendor pricing and utilization levels of pharmaceuticals;
•business infrastructure costs, which include the operating costs of our dialysis centers; and
•medical supply costs.
Other cost categories that can present significant variability include insurance costs and professional fees. In addition, proposed ballot initiatives or referendums, legislation, regulations or policy changes could cause us to incur substantial costs to prepare for, or implement changes required. Any such changes could result in, among other things, increases in our labor costs

64

or limitations on the amount of revenue that we can retain. For additional information on risks associated with potential and proposed ballot initiatives, referendums, legislation, regulations or policy changes, see the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading, "Changes in federal and state healthcare legislation or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows."
Our average clinical hours per treatment were relatively flat in 2021 compared to 2020. We are always striving for improved productivity levels, however, changes in things such as federal and state policies or regulatory billing requirements can lead to increased labor costs. In 2021, the demand for skilled clinical personnel continued, exacerbated by the nationwide shortage caused by the continuing COVID-19 pandemic on these resources. In 2021 and 2020, we experienced an increase in our clinical labor rates of approximately 3.9% and 3.0%, respectively, consistent with general industry trends. We expect to continue to see higher clinical labor rates in 2022 due to the labor market conditions and the continued competition for skilled clinical personnel. In 2021, our overall clinical teammate retention declined from 2020. We also continue to experience increases in the infrastructure and operating costs of our dialysis centers and general increases in rent and repairs and maintenance. In 2021, we continued to implement certain cost control initiatives to help manage our overall operating costs, including labor productivity and utilities expense, and we expect to continue these initiatives in 2022.
Our U.S. dialysis general and administrative expenses represented 8.7% and 9.0% of our U.S. dialysis revenues in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Increases in general and administrative expenses over the last several years were primarily related to strengthening our dialysis business and related compliance and operational processes, responding to certain legal and compliance matters, professional fees associated with enhancing our information technology systems and more recent advocacy costs in 2020 related to countering union policy efforts. We expect that these levels of general and administrative expenses will be impacted by higher advocacy costs in 2022 compared to 2021, continued investment in developing our capabilities and executing on our strategic priorities, among other things.
U.S. dialysis results of operations
Treatment volume:

------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------------- ---------- ------ --------- - ----- -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2021 2020 Amount Percent
Dialysis treatments 29,622,188 30,314,619 (692,431) (2.3) %
Average treatments per day 94,640 96,667 (2,027) (2.1) %
Treatment days 313.0 313.6 (0.6) (0.2) %
Normalized non-acquired treatment growth(1) (1.9)% 1.0% (2.9) %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

(1)Normalized non-acquired treatment growth reflects year over year growth in treatment volume, adjusted to exclude acquisitions and other similar transactions, and further adjusted to normalize for the number and mix of treatment days in a given period versus the prior period.
Our U.S. dialysis treatment volume is directly correlated with our operating revenues and expenses. The decrease in our U.S. dialysis treatments was driven by approximately (0.6) fewer treatment days in 2021 compared to 2020 and a decrease in non-acquired treatments, partially offset by acquired treatment growth. Treatment volume in 2021 was negatively impacted by higher mortality and missed treatments than in 2020. We believe the increased mortality rate is largely attributable to the impact of COVID-19 on our patient population.
Revenues:

--------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------ ------ ------------- ------ ------ ------- - ---- --- -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2021 2020 Amount Percent
 (dollars in millions, except per treatment data)
Total revenues $ 10,667 $ 10,660 $ 7 0.1 %
Average patient service revenue per treatment $ 359.24 $ 350.31 $ 8.93 2.5 %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.
U.S. dialysis revenues were positively impacted by an increase in our average patient service revenue per treatment driven by favorable changes in government mix due to shifts to Medicare Advantage plans, favorable changes in government rate related to increased Medicare base rates in 2021 and the temporary suspension of Medicare sequestration, as well as an increase in commercial mix and hospital inpatient dialysis services revenue per treatment. This was partially offset by changes in our treatment volume, as described above.

65

Operating expenses and charges:

------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------ ------ ------------- ---- ------ ------ ------- - ----- - ----- -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2021 2020 Amount Percent
 (dollars in millions, except per treatment data)
Patient care costs $ 7,153 $ 7,222 $ (69) (1.0) %
General and administrative(1) 926 958 (32) (3.3) %
Depreciation and amortization 643 595 48 8.1 %
Equity investment income (30) (33) 3 9.1 %
Total operating expenses and charges $ 8,692 $ 8,742 $ (50) (0.6) %
Patient care costs per treatment $ 241.47 $ 238.24 $ 3.23 1.4 %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers

(1)General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 included advocacy costs of approximately $67 million incurred to counter union policy efforts, including a California ballot initiative.
Patient care costs. U.S. dialysis patient care costs are those costs directly associated with operating and supporting our dialysis centers and consist principally of compensation expenses including labor and benefits, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and other operating costs of the dialysis centers.
U.S. dialysis patient care costs per treatment increased primarily due to increases in compensation expenses related to increased wages and health benefit expenses due to lower than normal claims volume in 2020 due to COVID-19, other direct operating expenses associated with our dialysis centers, medical supply expense and insurance expense. These increases were partially offset by decreases in pharmaceutical unit costs and intensity and COVID-19-related compensation expenses, utilities expense driven by our virtual power purchase arrangements and professional fees.
General and administrative expenses. U.S. dialysis general and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to decreases in advocacy costs and contributions to our charitable foundation, partially offset by increases in compensation expenses related to labor costs, health benefit expenses and payroll taxes, as well as increases in professional fees and long-term incentive compensation.
Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense is directly impacted by the number of dialysis centers and the information technology we develop and acquire. U.S. dialysis depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to the development of new centers and renovation of existing centers as well as accelerated depreciation for expected center closures.
Equity investment income. U.S. dialysis equity investment income decreased primarily due to a decline in profitability at our nonconsolidated joint ventures due to growth in development of new centers.
Operating income and adjusted operating income

---------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ------------- ------ ----- ------- - -- --- -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2021 2020 Amount Percent
 (dollars in millions)
Operating income $ 1,975 $ 1,918 $ 57 3.0 %
Adjusted operating income(1) $ 1,975 $ 1,918 $ 57 3.0 %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

(1)For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income by reportable segment, see the "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below.
U.S. dialysis operating income and adjusted operating income increased compared to 2020 primarily due to an increase in our average patient service revenue per treatment and decreases in pharmaceutical unit costs and intensity, COVID-19-related compensation expenses, advocacy costs, utilities expense, as described above, and contributions to our charitable foundation. These increases to operating income were partially offset by a decrease in dialysis treatments and increases in compensation expense, as described above, other direct operating expenses associated with our dialysis centers, medical supply expense, insurance expense and long-term incentive compensation.

66

Other - Ancillary services
Our other operations include ancillary services that are primarily aligned with our core business of providing dialysis services to our network of patients. As of December 31, 2021, these consisted primarily of our U.S. integrated care and disease management business (DaVita IKC), physician services, and clinical research programs (DaVita Clinical Research), as well as our international operations. These ancillary services, including our international operations, generated revenues of approximately $1.047 billion in 2021, representing approximately 9% of our consolidated revenues.
As of December 31, 2021, DaVita IKC provided integrated care and disease management services to approximately 16,000 patients in risk-based integrated care arrangements and to an additional 7,000 patients in other integrated care arrangements. We also expect to add additional service offerings to our business and pursue additional strategic initiatives in the future as circumstances warrant, which could include, among other things, healthcare services not related to dialysis.
As further described in the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading, "The ancillary services and strategic initiatives and international operations that we operate or invest in now or in the future may generate losses and may ultimately be unsuccessful. In the event that one or more of these activities is unsuccessful, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be negatively impacted and we may have to write off our investment and incur other exit costs," if any of our ancillary services, strategic initiatives or our international operations are unsuccessful, it may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and if we determine to exit that line of business we may incur significant termination costs. For discussion of risks and potential impacts specific to our integrated kidney care business and related growth strategy, see the risk factor under the heading "If we are not able to successfully implement our strategy with respect to our integrated kidney care and value-based care initiatives, including maintaining our existing business and further developing our capabilities in a complex and highly regulated environment, it could result in a loss of our investments and have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could materially harm our reputation." In addition, we have in the past and may in the future incur material write-offs or impairments of our investments, including goodwill, in one or more of these ancillary services.
As of December 31, 2021, our international dialysis business owned or operated 339 outpatient dialysis centers located in ten countries outside of the U.S. For 2021, total revenues generated from our international operations were approximately 6% of our consolidated revenues.
Ancillary services results of operations

------------------------------------ ----------------------- ----- ------------- --- ------ ----- ------- - ----- - ------ -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2021 2020 Amount Percent
 (dollars in millions)
Revenues:
U.S. ancillary $ 371 $ 489 $ (118) (24.1) %
International 676 564 112 19.9 %
Total ancillary services revenues $ 1,047 $ 1,053 $ (6) (0.6) %

Operating (loss) income:
U.S. ancillary $ (108) $ (99) $ (9) (9.1) %
International(1) 42 23 19 82.6 %
Total ancillary services loss $ (66) $ (76) $ 10 13.2 %

Adjusted operating (loss) income(2):
U.S. ancillary $ (108) $ (83) $ (25) (30.1) %
International(1) 42 23 19 82.6 %
Total adjusted operating loss: $ (66) $ (60) $ (6) (10.0) %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

(1)The reported operating income and adjusted operating income for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, includes foreign currency gains (losses) embedded in equity method income recognized from our APAC joint venture of approximately $3 million and $(3) million, respectively.
(2)For a reconciliation of adjusted operating (loss) income by reportable segment, see the "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below.

67

Revenues:
Our U.S. ancillary services revenues decreased due to a decrease in revenues at our integrated care and disease management business primarily due to a reduction in members in our special needs plans, as well as a decrease in revenues related to completion of our ESCO programs in the first quarter of 2021 and decreased revenues related to the sale of our vascular access business, RMS Lifeline, Inc. (Lifeline), as described below, partially offset by an increase in revenues in our physician services business. Our international revenues increased primarily as a result of acquired treatment growth as we continue to expand our international business.
Charges impacting operating income:
Loss on changes in ownership interests, net. We sold 100% of the stock of Lifeline, our vascular access business, effective May 1, 2020 and recognized a loss of approximately $16 million on this transaction.
Operating loss and adjusted operating loss:
Our U.S. ancillary services operating loss and adjusted operating loss were impacted by the sale of Lifeline, as described above. These losses were also impacted by a decline in operating results at our integrated care and disease management business due to increased investments to build up our integrated care support function, partially offset by a one-time non-recurring benefit received in the fourth quarter, improved performance at our physicians services business and decreased expenses in our clinical research business. International operating results increased primarily due to acquisition-related growth in our international business.

Corporate administrative support
Corporate administrative support consists primarily of labor, benefits and long-term incentive compensation expense, as well as professional fees for departments which provide support to all of our various operating lines of business. In 2020, corporate support also included an accrual for legal matters. Corporate administrative support expenses are included in general and administrative expenses on our consolidated income statement.
Accruals for legal matters. During 2020, we recorded a net charge for legal matters of $35 million.
Corporate administrative support expenses decreased $35 million primarily driven by accruals for legal matters, as described above, as well as a decrease in severance accruals associated with our senior executive leadership transition in 2020, partially offset by increased legal fees in 2021.

Corporate-level charges

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- --- ------------- ---- ------ --- ------- ----- ---- ------ -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2021 2020 Amount Percent
 (dollars in millions)
Debt expense $ 285 $ 304 $ (19) (6.3) %
Debt prepayment, refinancing and redemption charges $ — $ 89 $ (89)
Other income, net $ 6 $ 17 $ (11) (64.7) %
Effective income tax rate 20.2 % 23.8 % (3.6) %
Effective income tax rate from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc.(1) 23.8 % 28.6 % (4.8) %
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests $ 233 $ 221 $ 12 5.4 %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

(1)For a reconciliation of our effective income tax rate from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc., see the "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below.
Debt expense
Debt expense decreased primarily due to a decrease in our overall weighted average effective interest rate on our debt, including a reduction in the LIBOR component of the interest rate on debt under our senior secured credit facilities and the repricing of our Term Loan B-1 as well as the refinancing our 5.125% senior notes and 5.0% senior notes with lower cost debt, partially offset by additional debt expense associated with the Additional 2030 Notes offering completed in February 2021. Our overall weighted average effective interest rate in 2021 was 3.28% compared to 3.59% in 2020. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the components of our debt and changes in them since 2020.

68

Debt prepayment, refinancing and redemption charges
Debt prepayment, refinancing and redemption charges were $89 million in 2020 as a result of the redemption in full of both our $1.75 billion aggregate principal amount outstanding of 5.125% senior notes and our $1.50 billion aggregate principal amount outstanding of 5.0% senior notes. These 2020 charges represented debt redemption premium charges and deferred financing cost write-offs associated with our prior senior note debt that was paid in full. These charges recognized in 2020 also included $3 million of refinancing charges comprised partially of fees incurred on the repricing of our Term Loan B and partially of deferred financing costs written off for the portion of this debt considered extinguished and reborrowed. See further discussion of our 2020 debt prepayment, refinancing and redemption charges in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.
Other income
Other income consists primarily of interest income on cash and cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments, realized and unrealized gains and losses recognized on investments, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Other income decreased primarily due to losses on certain investments that began trading in public markets during the second quarter of 2021 and a decrease in interest income on our holdings of cash and cash equivalents in 2021. These decreases were partially offset by a reduction in foreign currency transaction losses.
Provision for income taxes
The effective income tax rate and effective income tax rate from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. decreased in 2021 primarily due to an increase in tax benefits from stock-based compensation deductions, reductions in nondeductible advocacy spending in 2021 and deferred tax benefits recognized with respect to our foreign provision which were partially offset by re-measurement of our federal deferred taxes in 2021. Additionally we recognized a benefit for a favorable settlement reached with state tax authorities which was partially offset by an accrual for our federal uncertain tax positions.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
The increase in income attributable to noncontrolling interests in 2021 compared to 2020 was due to improved earnings at certain U.S. dialysis partnerships.

Accounts receivable
Our consolidated accounts receivable balances at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 were $1.958 billion and $1.824 billion, respectively, representing approximately 62 days and 59 days of revenue (DSO), respectively. The increase in consolidated DSO was primarily due to an increase of two days of DSO in our U.S. dialysis business primarily due to temporary billing holds. Our DSO calculation is based on the most recent quarter’s average revenues per day. There were no significant changes during 2021 from 2020 in the carrying amount of accounts receivable outstanding over one year old or in the amounts pending approval from third-party payors.
As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, our patient services accounts receivable balances that are more than six months old represents approximately 16% and 17%, respectively of our total accounts receivable balances outstanding. Substantially all revenue realized is from government and commercial payors, as discussed above. Less than 1% of our revenues in both periods were classified as patient pay.
Amounts pending approval from third-party payors associated with Medicare bad debt claims as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, other than the standard monthly billing, consisted of approximately $133 million and $154 million, respectively, and are classified as other receivables. A significant portion of our Medicare bad debt claims are typically paid to us before the Medicare fiscal intermediary audits the claims but are subject to subsequent adjustment based upon the actual results of those audits. Such audits typically occur one to four years after the claims are filed.

69

Liquidity and capital resources
The following table summarizes our major sources and uses of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash:

----------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- ------------- ---------- ------ ------- ----------- - --------- - ------- -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2021 2020 Amount Percent
 (dollars in millions)
Net cash provided by operating activities:
Net income $ 1,212 $ 995 $ 217 21.8 %
Non-cash items in net income 860 1,089 (229) (21.0) %
Other working capital changes (108) (78) (30) (38.5) %
Other (33) (26) (7) (26.9) %
 $ 1,931 $ 1,979 $ (48) (2.4) %

Net cash used in investing activities:
Capital expenditures:
Routine maintenance/IT/other $ (421) $ (399) $ (22) (5.5) %
Development and relocations (220) (275) 55 20.0 %
Acquisition expenditures (187) (182) (5) (2.7) %
Proceeds from sale of self-developed properties 56 93 (37) (39.8) %
DMG post-closing sale proceeds adjustment — (47) 47 100.0 %
Other (12) (15) 3 20.0 %
 $ (785) $ (825) $ 40 4.8 %

Net cash used in financing activities:
Debt issuances (payments), net $ 754 $ (64) $ 818 1,278.1 %
Deferred financing and debt redemption costs (9) (106) 97 91.5 %
Distributions to noncontrolling interests (244) (253) 9 3.6 %
Contributions from noncontrolling interests 32 43 (11) (25.6) %
Stock award exercises and other share issuances (60) (1) (59) (5,900.0) %
Share repurchases (1,539) (1,458) (81) (5.6) %
Other (17) (8) (9) (112.5) %
 $ (1,083) $ (1,847) $ 764 41.4 %

Total number of shares repurchased 13,877,193 16,477,378 (2,600,185) (15.8) %

Free cash flow(1) $ 1,133 $ 1,188 $ (55) (4.6) %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

(1)For a reconciliation of our free cash flow, see the "Reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures" section below.
Consolidated cash flows
Consolidated cash flows from operating activities for 2021 and 2020 were $1,931 million and $1,979 million, respectively. The decrease in cash flow from continuing operations was primarily driven by an increase in total DSO of approximately three days for 2021 compared to an increase of one day in 2020, combined with the net legal settlement payment partially offset by a decrease in cash interest paid.
Cash flows used for investing activities in 2021 decreased $40 million compared to 2020 primarily due to the final settlement payment made for the DMG sale in 2020, as well as a decrease in capital expenditures related to development partially offset by a reduction in proceeds from sale of assets. See below for additional information regarding the growth in our dialysis centers.
Cash flows used in financing activities decreased $764 million in 2021 compared to 2020. Significant sources of cash during 2021 included proceeds from the issuance of $1,000 million in aggregate principal amount of the Additional 2030 Notes as an add-on offering to our 4.625% senior notes due 2030 that were issued at an offering price of 101.750% of face amount in February 2021. Significant uses of cash during 2021 primarily consisted of the repayment in full of borrowings under our revolving line of credit, net payments of regularly scheduled mandatory principal payments under our senior secured credit facilities totaling approximately $88 million on Term Loan A and $27 million on Term Loan B-1 and additional required principal payments under other debt arrangements. In addition, we incurred bond issuance costs of approximately $9 million.

70

See further discussion in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements related to debt financing activities. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2021 we used cash to repurchase 13,877,193 shares of our common stock.
By comparison, in 2020 debt activity primarily consisted of issuances of $1,500 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.75% senior notes due 2031 in August 2020 and $1,750 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior notes due 2030 in June 2020, as well as a net draw of $75 million on our revolving line of credit. Significant uses of cash during 2020 included the subsequent redemptions in full of $1,500 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.0% senior notes due 2025 in August 2020 and $1,750 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.125% senior notes due 2024 in July 2020. Other net payments during 2020 primarily consisted of regularly scheduled mandatory principal payments under our senior secured credit facilities totaling approximately $55 million on Term Loan A and $27 million on Term Loan B-1 and additional required principal payments under other debt arrangements. In addition, we incurred bond issuance costs of approximately $38 million, debt redemption premium charges related to the redemption of our senior notes due in 2024 and 2025 of approximately $67 million and costs of repricing our Term Loan B of approximately $3 million. See further discussion in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements related to debt financing activities. For the year ended December 31, 2020 we used cash to repurchase 16,477,378 shares of our common stock.
Dialysis center capacity and growth
We are typically able to increase our capacity by extending hours at our existing dialysis centers, expanding our existing dialysis centers, relocating our dialysis centers, developing new dialysis centers and by acquiring dialysis centers. The development of a typical new outpatient dialysis center generally requires approximately $2.3 million for leasehold improvements and other capital expenditures. Based on our experience, a new outpatient dialysis center typically opens within a year after the property lease is signed, normally achieves operating profitability in the second year after Medicare certification, and normally reaches maturity within three to five years. Acquiring an existing outpatient dialysis center requires a substantially greater initial investment, but profitability and cash flows are generally accelerated and more predictable. To a limited extent, we enter into agreements to provide management and administrative services to outpatient dialysis centers in which we own a noncontrolling interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties in return for management fees.
The table below shows the growth in our dialysis operations by number of dialysis centers owned or operated:

---------------------------------------------------------- ----- ------------- ----- ---- ---- ---
 U.S. International
 2021 2020 2021 2020
Number of centers operated at beginning of year 2,816 2,753 321 259
Acquired centers 19 8 17 66
Developed centers 42 81 7 5
Net change in non-owned managed or administered centers(1) 3 — — (6)
Sold and closed centers(2) (11) (6) (5) —
Closed centers(3) (54) (20) (1) (3)
Number of centers operated at end of year 2,815 2,816 339 321

(1)Represents dialysis centers which we manage or provide administrative services to but in which we own a noncontrolling equity interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties, including our Asia Pacific joint venture centers.
(2)Represents dialysis centers that were sold and/or closed for which the majority of patients were not retained.
(3)Represents dialysis centers that were closed for which the majority of patients were retained and transferred to one of our other existing outpatient dialysis centers.

71

Stock repurchases
The following table summarizes our common stock repurchases during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020:

----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ------ ---- ------ - -----
 Year ended December 31,
 2021 2020
 (dollars in millions and shares in thousands, except per share data)
Open market repurchases
Shares 13,877 8,495
Amounts paid $ 1,546 $ 742
Average paid per share $ 111.41 $ 87.32

Tender offer(1)
Shares — 7,982
Amounts paid $ — $ 705
Average paid per share $ — $ 88.32

Total
Shares 13,877 16,477
Amounts paid $ 1,546 $ 1,447
Average paid per share $ 111.41 $ 87.80

(1)The aggregate amounts paid for shares repurchased pursuant to our tender offer for our shares during the year ended December 31, 2020, include its clearing price of $88.00 per share plus related fees and expenses of $2.5 million.
Subsequent to December 31, 2021, we have repurchased 1,437,107 shares of our common stock for $159 million at an average cost of $110.73 per share through February 9, 2022. We retired all shares of common stock held in treasury effective December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020.
See further discussion of our share repurchase activity and authorizations in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
Available liquidity
As of December 31, 2021, our cash balance was $462 million and we held approximately $22 million in short-term investments. At that time we also had an undrawn $1.0 billion revolving line of credit under our senior secured credit facilities. Credit available under this revolving line of credit is reduced by the amount of any letters of credit outstanding thereunder, of which there were none as of December 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2021 we separately had approximately $69 million in letters of credit outstanding under a separate bilateral secured letter of credit facility.
See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for components of our long-term debt and their interest rates.
The COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to prevent its spread have dramatically reduced global economic activity and driven increased volatility in the financial markets. We have maintained business process continuity during the COVID-19 pandemic by enabling most back office teammates to work remotely, and as of the date of this report, we have not experienced a material deterioration in our liquidity position as a result of the COVID-19 crisis. The ultimate impact of the pandemic will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and difficult to predict.
We believe that our cash flow from operations and other sources of liquidity, including from amounts available under our senior secured credit facilities and our access to the capital markets, will be sufficient to fund our scheduled debt service under the terms of our debt agreements and other obligations for the foreseeable future, including the next 12 months. Our primary recurrent sources of liquidity are cash from operations and cash from borrowings, which are subject to general, economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, as described in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading "The level of our current and future debt could have an adverse impact on our business, and our ability to generate cash to service our indebtedness and for other intended purposes and our ability to maintain compliance with debt covenants depends on many factors beyond our control."

72

Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures
The following tables provide reconciliations of adjusted operating income (loss) to operating income (loss) as presented on a U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis for our U.S. dialysis reportable segment as well as for our U.S. ancillary services, our international business, and for our total ancillary services which combines them and is disclosed as our other segments category. These non-GAAP or "adjusted" measures are presented because management believes these measures are useful adjuncts to, but not alternatives for, our GAAP results.
Specifically, management uses adjusted operating income (loss) to compare and evaluate our performance period over period and relative to competitors, to analyze the underlying trends in our business, to establish operational budgets and forecasts and for incentive compensation purposes. We believe this non-GAAP measure is also useful to investors and analysts in evaluating our performance over time and relative to competitors, as well as in analyzing the underlying trends in our business. We also believe this presentation enhances a user's understanding of our normal operating income by excluding certain items which we do not believe are indicative of our ordinary results of operations.
In addition, our effective income tax rate on income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. excludes noncontrolling owners' income, which primarily relates to non-tax paying entities. We believe this adjusted effective income tax rate is useful to management, investors and analysts in evaluating our performance and establishing expectations for income taxes incurred on our ordinary results attributable to DaVita Inc.
Finally, our free cash flow from continuing operations represents net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations less distributions to noncontrolling interests and all capital expenditures (including development capital expenditures, routine maintenance and information technology), plus contributions from noncontrolling interests and proceeds from the sale of self-developed properties. Management uses this measure to assess our ability to fund acquisitions and meet our debt service obligations and we believe this measure is equally useful to investors and analysts as an adjunct to cash flows from operating activities from continuing operations and other measures under GAAP.
It is important to bear in mind that these non-GAAP "adjusted" measures are not measures of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered in isolation from, nor as substitutes for, their most comparable GAAP measures.

-------------------------------- ---------------------------- ----- ------------------ ------------- ------------------------ ----- ------------ -- - ---- - ----- - -----
 Year ended December 31, 2021
 U.S. dialysis Ancillary services Corporate administration
 U.S. International Total Consolidated
 (dollars in millions)
Operating income (loss) $ 1,975 $ (108) $ 42 $ (66) $ (112) $ 1,797

Adjusted operating income (loss) $ 1,975 $ (108) $ 42 $ (66) $ (112) $ 1,797

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- ----- ------------------ ------------- ------------------------ ----- -- ------------ -- -- -- ---- - ----- - -----
 Year ended December 31, 2020
 U.S. dialysis Ancillary services Corporate administration
 U.S. International Total Consolidated
 (dollars in millions)
Operating income (loss) $ 1,918 $ (99) $ 23 $ (76) $ (147) $ 1,695

Loss on changes in ownership interests, net 16 16 16

Accruals for legal matters 35 35

Adjusted operating income (loss) $ 1,918 $ (83) $ 23 $ (60) $ (112) $ 1,746

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

73

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- - -----
 Year ended December 31,
 2021 2020
 (dollars in millions)
Income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 1,518 $ 1,318
Less: Noncontrolling owners’ income primarily attributable to non-tax paying entities (234) (222)
Income from continuing operations before income taxes attributable to DaVita Inc. $ 1,284 $ 1,097

Income tax expense for continuing operations $ 307 $ 314
Income tax attributable to noncontrolling interests (1) (1)
Income tax expense from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. $ 306 $ 313

Effective income tax rate on income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. 23.8 % 28.6 %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- ----- - -----
 Year ended December 31,
 2021 2020
 (dollars in millions)
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,931 $ 1,979
Adjustments to reconcile net cash provided by continuing operating activities to free cash flow from continuing operations:
Distributions to noncontrolling interests (244) (253)
Contributions from noncontrolling interests 32 43
Expenditures for routine maintenance and information technology (421) (399)
Expenditures for development (220) (275)
Proceeds from sale of self-developed properties 56 93
Free cash flow $ 1,133 $ 1,188

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

Off-balance sheet arrangements and aggregate contractual obligations
In addition to the debt obligations and operating lease liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, we have commitments associated with letters of credit, as well as certain working capital funding obligations associated with our equity investments in nonconsolidated dialysis ventures that we manage and some we manage that are wholly-owned by third parties.
We also have potential obligations to purchase the noncontrolling interests held by third parties in many of our majority-owned dialysis partnerships and other nonconsolidated entities. These obligations are in the form of put provisions that are exercisable at the third-party owners’ discretion within specified periods as outlined in each specific put provision. For additional information see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
The following is a summary of these cash contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2021:

------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- ----- --------- --- --------- ----- ---------- ----- ----- --- ----- ----- - ------
 2022 2023-2024 2025-2026 Thereafter Total
 (dollars in millions)
Debt and leases:
Long-term debt(1):
Principal payments $ 155 $ 1,589 $ 2,633 $ 4,289 $ 8,666
Interest payments on credit facilities and senior notes 258 503 446 698 1,905
Financing leases(2) 24 54 60 161 299
Operating leases, including imputed interest(2) 494 974 775 1,294 3,537
 $ 931 $ 3,120 $ 3,914 $ 6,442 $ 14,407
Partnership interests subject to put provisions:(3)
On-balance sheet:
Noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions 1,150 151 64 70 1,435
Off-balance sheet:
Non-owned and minority owned put provisions 117 5 122
 $ 1,267 $ 156 $ 64 $ 70 $ 1,557

(1)See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for components of our long-term debt and related interest rates.

74

(2)See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for components of our leases and related interest rates.
(3)Represents amounts for which we are contractually committed, should the outside partner exercise its put option.
As of December 31, 2021 we have outstanding letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $69 million under a separate bilateral secured letter of credit facility.
In 2017, we entered into a Sourcing and Supply Agreement with Amgen USA Inc. (Amgen) that expires on December 31, 2022. Under the terms of the agreement, we will purchase EPO from Amgen in amounts necessary to meet no less than 90% of its requirements for erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) through the expiration of the contract. The actual amount of EPO that we will purchase will depend upon the amount of EPO administered during dialysis as prescribed by physicians and the overall number of patients that we serve.
As of December 31, 2021 we have outstanding purchase agreements with various suppliers to purchase set amounts of dialysis equipment, parts, and supplies. If we fail to meet the minimum purchase commitments under these contracts during any year, we are required to pay the difference to the supplier. For additional information see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
We also have certain potential commitments to provide working capital funding, if necessary, to certain nonconsolidated dialysis businesses that we manage and in which we own a noncontrolling equity interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties. For additional information see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Additionally, we expect our 2022 capital expenditures to be in alignment with 2021 capital expenditures.
In addition, we have approximately $88 million of existing income tax liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest, penalties and other long-term tax liabilities. We expect a significant portion of these settlements to be paid in 2022.

Contingencies
The information in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report is incorporated by reference in response to this item.

Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments
Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles require us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities, contingencies and noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions (redeemable equity interests). All significant estimates, judgments and assumptions are developed based on the best information available to us at the time made and are regularly reviewed and updated when necessary. Actual results will generally differ from these estimates, and such differences may be material. Changes in estimates are reflected in our financial statements in the period of change based upon on-going actual experience trends or subsequent settlements and realizations depending on the nature and predictability of the estimates and contingencies. Certain accounting estimates, including those concerning revenue recognition and accounts receivable, fair value estimates for goodwill and noncontrolling interests, accounting for income taxes, and loss contingencies are considered to be critical to evaluating and understanding our financial results because they involve inherently uncertain matters and their application requires the most difficult and complex judgments and estimates. For additional information, see Part II Item 15, "Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules" – Note 1 – "Organization and summary of significant accounting policies" as referred from Part II Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."
U.S. dialysis revenue recognition and accounts receivable. There are significant estimating risks associated with the amount of U.S. dialysis revenue that we recognize in a given reporting period. Payment rates are often subject to significant uncertainties related to wide variations in the coverage terms of the commercial healthcare plans under which we receive payments. In addition, ongoing insurance coverage changes, geographic coverage differences, differing interpretations of contract coverage, and other payor issues complicate the billing and collection process. The measurement and recognition of revenue requires the use of estimates of the amounts that will ultimately be realized considering, among other items, retroactive adjustments that may be associated with regulatory reviews, audits, billing reviews and other matters.
Revenues associated with Medicare and Medicaid programs are recognized based on (a) the payment rates that are established by statute or regulation for the portion of the payment rates paid by the government payor (e.g., 80% for Medicare patients) and (b) for the portion not paid by the primary government payor, the estimated amounts that will ultimately be collectible from other government programs providing secondary coverage (e.g., Medicaid secondary coverage), the patient’s commercial health plan secondary coverage, or the patient. Our dialysis related reimbursements from Medicare are subject to certain variations under Medicare’s single bundled payment rate system whereby our reimbursements can be adjusted for

75

certain patient characteristics and other variable factors. Our revenue recognition depends upon our ability to effectively capture, document and bill for Medicare’s base payment rate and these other factors. In addition, as a result of the potential range of variations that can occur in our dialysis-related reimbursements from Medicare under the single bundled payment rate system, our revenue recognition is subject to a greater degree of estimating risk.
Commercial healthcare plans, including contracted managed-care payors, are billed at our usual and customary rates; however, revenue is recognized based on estimated net realizable revenue for the services provided. Net realizable revenue is estimated based on contractual terms for the patients covered under commercial healthcare plans with which we have formal agreements, non-contracted commercial healthcare plan coverage terms if known, estimated secondary collections, historical collection experience, historical trends of refunds and payor payment adjustments (retractions), inefficiencies in our billing and collection processes that can result in denied claims for payments, the estimated timing of collections, changes in our expectations of the amounts that we expect to collect and regulatory compliance matters. Determining applicable primary and secondary coverage for our approximately 203,100 U.S. dialysis patients at any point in time, together with the changes in patient coverages that occur each month, requires complex, resource-intensive processes. Collections, refunds and payor retractions typically continue to occur for up to three years or longer after services are provided.
We generally expect the range of our U.S. dialysis revenue estimating risk to be within 1% of revenue, which can represent as much as approximately 5% of our U.S. dialysis business’s adjusted operating income. Changes in estimates are reflected in the then-current financial statements based on on-going actual experience trends, or subsequent settlements and realizations depending on the nature and predictability of the estimates and contingencies. Changes in revenue estimates for prior periods are separately disclosed and reported if material to the current reporting period and longer term trend analyses, and have not been significant.
Revenues for laboratory services, which are integrally related to our dialysis services, are recognized in the period services are provided at the estimated net realizable amounts to be received.
Certain fair value estimates. Fair value measurements and estimates affect, or potentially affect, a variety of elements in the Company's financial statements. Two of the elements most significantly impacted by fair value estimates are the Company's goodwill impairment assessments and remeasurements of its noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions balance.
Goodwill is not amortized, but is assessed for impairment when changes in circumstances warrant and at least annually. An impairment charge is recorded when and to the extent a reporting unit's carrying amount is determined to exceed its estimated fair value. Changes in circumstance that may trigger a goodwill impairment assessment for one of our business units can include, among others, changes in the legal environment, addressable market, business strategy, development or business plans, reimbursement structure, operating performance, future prospects, relationships with partners, and/or market value indications for the subject business. We use a variety of factors to assess changes in the financial condition, future prospects and other circumstances for businesses subject to goodwill impairment assessment. However, these assessments and the related valuations can involve significant uncertainties and require significant judgment on various matters. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for a sensitivity summary on the Company's reporting units considered at risk of goodwill impairment as of December 31, 2021.
The Company is also required to remeasure its noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions to estimated fair value each reporting period. These estimates also require substantive judgment on meaningful uncertainties concerning this significant balance. See Notes 17 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of the Company's approach to these valuations, the variables and uncertainties involved, and the sensitivity of these valuations to changes in a primary aggregate valuation metric.
Accounting for income taxes. Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous state and foreign jurisdictions, and changes in tax laws or regulations may be proposed or enacted that could adversely affect our overall tax liability. The actual impact of any such laws or regulations could be materially different from our current estimates.
Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining our consolidated income tax expense. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, which will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdictions from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, results of recent operations, and assumptions about the amount of future federal, state, and foreign pre-tax operating income adjusted for items that do not have tax consequences. The assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgments and are consistent with the plans and estimates we use to manage the underlying businesses. To the extent that recovery is not likely, a

76

valuation allowance is established. The allowance is regularly reviewed and updated for changes in circumstances that would cause a change in judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax assets.
Loss contingencies. As discussed in Notes 1 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements, we operate in a highly regulated industry and are party to various lawsuits, claims, qui tam suits, governmental investigations and audits (including, without limitation, investigations or other actions resulting from our obligation to self-report suspected violations of law), contract disputes and other legal proceedings. Assessments of such matters can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. We record accruals for loss contingencies on such matters to the extent that we determine an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for further discussion.

Significant new accounting standards
See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for information regarding certain recent financial accounting standards that have been issued by the FASB.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[see Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2021 2020 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (27) (33) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,123 $ 4,117 89 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. Our senior notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. We may redeem the notes at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain ch...

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97

[see Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- February 2025 2.07% 500 We may redeem the notes at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain ch...

[see Note 17]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (27) (33) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,123 $ 4,117 89 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior We may redeem the notes at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain ch...

[See Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[See Note 1]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 131 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (27) (33) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,123 $ 4,117 89 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August ch...

[Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97

[Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (27) (33) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,123 $ 4,117 89 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. Our senior notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. We may redeem the notes at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain ch...

[Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2021 2020 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (27) (33) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,123 $ 4,117 89 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. Our senior notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. We may redeem the notes at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain ch...

[Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements]:
 lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[Notes 17 and 24]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2021 2020 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (27) (33) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,123 $ 4,117 89 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. Our senior notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. We may redeem the notes at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain ch...

[Notes 1 and 16]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[see Part II Item 15]:
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 58

[Part II Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part I, Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part I Item 1]:
Item 1 Business 1

[Part I Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

[Part II Item 15]:
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 58

[Part II Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[described in Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

[as described in Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

['s impact on the chronic kidney disease (CKD) patient population and our patient population, including on the mortality of these patients; the availability, acceptance, and local government responses to the continuing pandemic; and any potential changes to the extensive set of federal, state and local laws, regulations and requirements that govern our business. In many cases, the impact of the pandemic on us may persist even after the pandemic subsidies.
For additional discussion of the COVID-19 pandemic and our response, including its impact on us and related risks and uncertainties, please see the discussion in Part I Item 1. Business under the headings, "]:
Item 1 Business 1

[" as well as the risk factor in Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

['s carrying amount is determined to exceed its estimated fair value. Changes in circumstance that may trigger a goodwill impairment assessment for one of our business units can include, among others, changes in the legal environment, addressable market, business strategy, development or business plans, reimbursement structure, operating performance, future prospects, relationships with partners, and/or market value indications for the subject business. We use a variety of factors to assess changes in the financial condition, future prospects and other circumstances for businesses subject to goodwill impairment assessment. However, these assessments and the related valuations can involve significant uncertainties and require significant judgment on various matters. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for a sensitivity summary on the Company']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[' average reimbursement by a productivity-adjusted market

63

basket increase of 1.9% in 2022. In addition, the Protecting Medicare and American Farmers from Sequester Cuts Act extended the suspension of the 2% Medicare sequestration from December 31, 2021 through March 31, 2022, with 1% Medicare sequestration beginning April 1, 2022 through June 30, 2022 and 2% Medicare sequestration beginning July 1, 2022.
Dialysis payment rates from commercial payors vary and a major portion of our commercial rates are set at contracted amounts with payors and are subject to intense negotiation pressure. On average, dialysis-related payment rates from contracted commercial payors are significantly higher than Medicare, Medicaid and other government program payment rates, and therefore the percentage of commercial patients in relation to total patients represents a significant driver of our total average dialysis patient service revenue per treatment. Commercial payors (including hospital dialysis services) represent approximately 32% of U.S. dialysis patient services revenues.
For discussion of government reimbursement, the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system, Medicare Advantage and commercial reimbursement, see the discussion in Part I. Item 1. Business under the heading "]:
Item 1 Business 1

[" For a discussion of operational, clinical and financial risks and uncertainties that we face in connection with the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system, see the risk factor in Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

[" For a discussion of operational, clinical and financial risks and uncertainties that we face in connection with commercial payors, see the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

[" section below.
U.S. dialysis operating income and adjusted operating income increased compared to 2020 primarily due to an increase in our average patient service revenue per treatment and decreases in pharmaceutical unit costs and intensity, COVID-19-related compensation expenses, advocacy costs, utilities expense, as described above, and contributions to our charitable foundation. These increases to operating income were partially offset by a decrease in dialysis treatments and increases in compensation expense, as described above, other direct operating expenses associated with our dialysis centers, medical supply expense, insurance expense and long-term incentive compensation.

66

Other - Ancillary services
Our other operations include ancillary services that are primarily aligned with our core business of providing dialysis services to our network of patients. As of December 31, 2021, these consisted primarily of our U.S. integrated care and disease management business (DaVita IKC), physician services, and clinical research programs (DaVita Clinical Research), as well as our international operations. These ancillary services, including our international operations, generated revenues of approximately $1.047 billion in 2021, representing approximately 9% of our consolidated revenues.
As of December 31, 2021, DaVita IKC provided integrated care and disease management services to approximately 16,000 patients in risk-based integrated care arrangements and to an additional 7,000 patients in other integrated care arrangements. We also expect to add additional service offerings to our business and pursue additional strategic initiatives in the future as circumstances warrant, which could include, among other things, healthcare services not related to dialysis.
As further described in the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading, "]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

[" section below.
Debt expense
Debt expense decreased primarily due to a decrease in our overall weighted average effective interest rate on our debt, including a reduction in the LIBOR component of the interest rate on debt under our senior secured credit facilities and the repricing of our Term Loan B-1 as well as the refinancing our 5.125% senior notes and 5.0% senior notes with lower cost debt, partially offset by additional debt expense associated with the Additional 2030 Notes offering completed in February 2021. Our overall weighted average effective interest rate in 2021 was 3.28% compared to 3.59% in 2020. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the components of our debt and changes in them since 2020.

68

Debt prepayment, refinancing and redemption charges
Debt prepayment, refinancing and redemption charges were $89 million in 2020 as a result of the redemption in full of both our $1.75 billion aggregate principal amount outstanding of 5.125% senior notes and our $1.50 billion aggregate principal amount outstanding of 5.0% senior notes. These 2020 charges represented debt redemption premium charges and deferred financing cost write-offs associated with our prior senior note debt that was paid in full. These charges recognized in 2020 also included $3 million of refinancing charges comprised partially of fees incurred on the repricing of our Term Loan B and partially of deferred financing costs written off for the portion of this debt considered extinguished and reborrowed. See further discussion of our 2020 debt prepayment, refinancing and redemption charges in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.
Other income
Other income consists primarily of interest income on cash and cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments, realized and unrealized gains and losses recognized on investments, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Other income decreased primarily due to losses on certain investments that began trading in public markets during the second quarter of 2021 and a decrease in interest income on our holdings of cash and cash equivalents in 2021. These decreases were partially offset by a reduction in foreign currency transaction losses.
Provision for income taxes
The effective income tax rate and effective income tax rate from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. decreased in 2021 primarily due to an increase in tax benefits from stock-based compensation deductions, reductions in nondeductible advocacy spending in 2021 and deferred tax benefits recognized with respect to our foreign provision which were partially offset by re-measurement of our federal deferred taxes in 2021. Additionally we recognized a benefit for a favorable settlement reached with state tax authorities which was partially offset by an accrual for our federal uncertain tax positions.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
The increase in income attributable to noncontrolling interests in 2021 compared to 2020 was due to improved earnings at certain U.S. dialysis partnerships.

Accounts receivable
Our consolidated accounts receivable balances at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 were $1.958 billion and $1.824 billion, respectively, representing approximately 62 days and 59 days of revenue (DSO), respectively. The increase in consolidated DSO was primarily due to an increase of two days of DSO in our U.S. dialysis business primarily due to temporary billing holds. Our DSO calculation is based on the most recent quarter’s average revenues per day. There were no significant changes during 2021 from 2020 in the carrying amount of accounts receivable outstanding over one year old or in the amounts pending approval from third-party payors.
As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, our patient services accounts receivable balances that are more than six months old represents approximately 16% and 17%, respectively of our total accounts receivable balances outstanding. Substantially all revenue realized is from government and commercial payors, as discussed above. Less than 1% of our revenues in both periods were classified as patient pay.
Amounts pending approval from third-party payors associated with Medicare bad debt claims as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, other than the standard monthly billing, consisted of approximately $133 million and $154 million, respectively, and are classified as other receivables. A significant portion of our Medicare bad debt claims are typically paid to us before the Medicare fiscal intermediary audits the claims but are subject to subsequent adjustment based upon the actual results of those audits. Such audits typically occur one to four years after the claims are filed.

69

Liquidity and capital resources
The following table summarizes our major sources and uses of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash:

----------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ------- ------------- ---------- ------ ------- ----------- - --------- - ------- -
 Year ended December 31, Annual change
 2021 2020 Amount Percent
 (dollars in millions)
Net cash provided by operating activities:
Net income $ 1,212 $ 995 $ 217 21.8 %
Non-cash items in net income 860 1,089 (229) (21.0) %
Other working capital changes (108) (78) (30) (38.5) %
Other (33) (26) (7) (26.9) %
 $ 1,931 $ 1,979 $ (48) (2.4) %

Net cash used in investing activities:
Capital expenditures:
Routine maintenance/IT/other $ (421) $ (399) $ (22) (5.5) %
Development and relocations (220) (275) 55 20.0 %
Acquisition expenditures (187) (182) (5) (2.7) %
Proceeds from sale of self-developed properties 56 93 (37) (39.8) %
DMG post-closing sale proceeds adjustment — (47) 47 100.0 %
Other (12) (15) 3 20.0 %
 $ (785) $ (825) $ 40 4.8 %

Net cash used in financing activities:
Debt issuances (payments), net $ 754 $ (64) $ 818 1,278.1 %
Deferred financing and debt redemption costs (9) (106) 97 91.5 %
Distributions to noncontrolling interests (244) (253) 9 3.6 %
Contributions from noncontrolling interests 32 43 (11) (25.6) %
Stock award exercises and other share issuances (60) (1) (59) (5,900.0) %
Share repurchases (1,539) (1,458) (81) (5.6) %
Other (17) (8) (9) (112.5) %
 $ (1,083) $ (1,847) $ 764 41.4 %

Total number of shares repurchased 13,877,193 16,477,378 (2,600,185) (15.8) %

Free cash flow(1) $ 1,133 $ 1,188 $ (55) (4.6) %

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the presentation of rounded numbers.

(1)For a reconciliation of our free cash flow, see the "]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...