================================================================================
CIK: 0001306830
Company Name: Celanese Corp
Filing Date: 2022-02-10
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 01:59:44
================================================================================

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto..
Risks Related to Economic and Industry Conditions
We are exposed to general economic, political and regulatory conditions and risks in the countries in which we have operations and customers.
We operate globally and have customers in many countries. Our major facilities are primarily located in North America, Europe and Asia, and we hold interests in affiliates that operate in the United States ("U.S."), Germany, China, Japan, South Korea and Saudi Arabia. Our principal customers are similarly global in scope and the prices of our most significant products are typically regional or world market prices. Consequently, our business and financial results are affected, directly and indirectly, by world economic conditions, including instability in credit markets, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices and interest rates, volatile exchange rates and other challenges such as the changing regulatory environment.
Our operations are also subject to global political conditions. For example, any future withdrawal or renegotiation of trade agreements, or the failure to reach agreement over trade agreements, or the imposition of new or increased tariffs on our products or raw materials, or the more aggressive prosecution of trade disputes with countries like China, may increase costs or reduce profitability, or adversely affect our ability to operate our business and execute our growth strategy. In addition, it may be more difficult for us to enforce agreements, collect receivables, receive dividends and repatriate earnings through foreign legal systems. In certain foreign jurisdictions our operations are subject to nationalization and expropriation risk and some of our contractual relationships within these jurisdictions are subject to cancellation without full compensation for loss. Furthermore, in certain cases where we benefit from local government subsidies or other undertakings, such benefits are subject to the solvency of local government entities and are subject to termination without meaningful recourse or remedies.
We have invested significant resources in China and other Asian countries. This region's growth may slow, or trade flows could be negatively impacted, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits associated with our investment there and, consequently, our financial results may be adversely impacted.
In addition, we have significant operations and financial relationships based in Europe. Historically, sales originating in Europe have accounted for over one-third of our net sales annually, and accounted for approximately 36% of our net sales in 2021. Adverse conditions in the European economy related to the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union ("EU") membership or otherwise may negatively impact our overall financial results due to reduced economic growth, trade disruptions, decreased end-use customer demand or other factors.
We are subject to risks associated with the increased volatility in the prices and availability of key raw materials and energy, which could have a significant adverse effect on the margins of our products and our financial results.
We purchase significant amounts of ethylene, methanol, carbon monoxide and natural gas from third parties primarily for use in our production of basic chemicals in our intermediate chemistry business, principally acetic acid, VAM and formaldehyde. We use a portion of our output of these chemicals, in turn, as inputs in the production of downstream products in all of our business segments. We also purchase some of these raw materials for use in our emulsion polymers and EVA polymer businesses, primarily for vinyl acetate ethylene emulsions and ethylene vinyl acetate production, as well as significant amounts of wood pulp for use in our production of acetate tow. We also procure polymers, rubber and polypropylene for use in production of engineered materials, and other raw materials as additives to our products including fiberglass, flame retardant materials and other compounding components.
The prices and availability of many of these items is dependent on the available supply and may increase significantly as a result of uncertainties associated with inflationary pressures, transportation or logistics disruptions, weather, natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics, the effects of climate change or political instability, plant or production disruptions, strikes or other labor unrest, breakdown or degradation of transportation infrastructure used in the delivery of raw materials and energy commodities, war, terrorist activities, civil unrest, or changes in laws or regulations in any of the countries in which we have significant

18

Table of Contents
suppliers. In particular, to the extent of our vertical integration in the production of chemicals, shortages in the availability of raw material chemicals, such as natural gas, ethylene and methanol, or the loss of our dedicated supplies of carbon monoxide, may have an increased adverse impact on us as it can cause a shortage in intermediate and finished products. Such shortages would adversely impact our ability to produce certain products and increase our costs resulting in reduced margins and adverse impacts to our financial results. Like many companies in 2021, we experienced supply disruptions and increased costs of inputs, which we believe led to increased costs and some lost sales as a result of reduced ability to produce products to meet aggregate demand. We attempt to pass through costs to customers, but even where we are successful increased prices could lead to reduced customer demand for our products or could result in competitive disadvantages. We currently expect these issues to continue into 2022.
We are exposed to volatility in the prices of our raw materials and energy. Although we have long-term supply agreements, multi-year purchasing and sales agreements and forward purchase contracts providing for the supply of ethylene, methanol, carbon monoxide, wood pulp, natural gas and electricity, the contractual prices for these raw materials and energy can vary with economic conditions and may be highly volatile. In addition to the factors noted above that may impact supply or price, factors that have caused volatility in our raw material prices in the past and which may do so in the future include:
•Shortages of raw materials due to increasing demand, e.g., from growing uses or new uses;
•Capacity constraints, e.g., due to construction delays, labor disruption, government-imposed work or travel restrictions, involuntary shutdowns or turnarounds;
•A supplier's inability to meet our delivery orders, a supplier's decision not to fulfill orders or to terminate a supply contract or our inability to obtain or renew supply contracts on favorable terms;
•The general level of business, economic and industry activity; and
•The direct or indirect effect of governmental regulation (including the impact of government regulation relating to climate change or regulation of production and transport of certain chemicals).
If we are not able to fully offset the effects of higher energy and raw material costs through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs, or if such commodities become unavailable, it could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to timely and profitably manufacture and deliver our products resulting in reduced margins and adverse impacts to our financial results.
We have a practice of maintaining, when available, multiple sources of supply for raw materials and services. However, some of our individual plants may have single sources of supply for some of their raw materials, such as carbon monoxide, steam and ethylene, or site services. Although we have been able to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials and services, there can be no assurance that unforeseen developments will not affect our ability to source raw materials or services in the future. Even if we have multiple sources of supply for a raw material or a service, there can be no assurance that these sources can make up for the loss of a major supplier. Furthermore, if any sole source or major supplier were unable or unwilling to deliver a raw material or a service for an extended period of time, we may not be able to find an acceptable alternative or any such alternative could result in increased costs. It is also possible that profitability would be adversely affected if we were required to qualify additional sources of supply for a raw material or a service to our specifications in the event of the loss of a sole source or major supplier.
Almost all of our supply of methanol in North America is currently obtained from our joint venture, Fairway, with Mitsui, in which we own a 50% interest, for the production of methanol at our integrated chemical plant in Clear Lake, Texas.
Our business, financial condition and result of operations have been, are being, and may in the future be, significantly and adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, and we cannot predict the extent to which these effects may continue or re-occur with greater severity.
Substantially all locations where we and our customers and suppliers have offices and production facilities were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting government-imposed quarantines, stay-at-home restrictions, travel restrictions and other public health and safety measures.
COVID-19 significantly impacted our operations and financial results during 2020 by slowing down the economy and depressing demand in many of our markets as well as the end customers of products for which our products serve as materials and inputs. Like most companies, we continue to be impacted by the continuing effects of the pandemic.

19

Table of Contents
The extent to which COVID-19 may continue to impact our operations or those of our customers or suppliers will depend on future developments and numerous factors, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence. These include:
•the extent of any resurgence in infections and the spread of the disease or variants thereof, and the effectiveness of vaccines or other medical treatments;
•additional governmental, business and individual actions to contain the spread of COVID-19, including social distancing, work-at-home, stay-at-home and shelter-in-place orders and shutdowns, travel restrictions and quarantines;
•the extent to which these conditions depress economic activity generally and demand for our products specifically and affect the financial markets;
•the effect of the outbreak on our employees, customers, suppliers, supply chain and other business partners;
•our ability during the outbreak to provide our products and services;
•disruptions to our business, supply chain or the availability of raw materials caused by plant closures or transportation and shipping disruptions;
•the risk that we could be exposed to liability, negative publicity or reputational harm related to any incidents of actual or perceived transmission of COVID-19 among employees at our facilities;
•the ability of our customers to pay for our products and services during and following the outbreak;
•our ability to access usual sources of liquidity on reasonable terms; and
•our ability to comply with the financial covenant in our Credit Agreement if a material and prolonged economic downturn were to result in increased indebtedness or substantially lower EBITDA.
The COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, and it is unknown if disruptions to our customers' demand will recur. We have monitored and will continue to monitor the situation closely.
Risks Related to Our Global Operations and Our Strategy
Production at our manufacturing facilities, or at our suppliers', could be disrupted for a variety of reasons, which could prevent us from producing enough of our products to maintain our sales and satisfy our customers' demands.
A disruption in production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities, or our suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Disruptions could occur for many reasons, including fire, natural disasters, weather, unplanned maintenance or other manufacturing problems, public health crises (including, but not limited to, the COVID-19 pandemic), disease, strikes or other labor unrest, transportation interruption, government regulation, political unrest or terrorism. Alternative facilities with sufficient capacity or capabilities may not be available, may cost substantially more or may take a significant time to start production, each of which could negatively affect our business and financial performance. If one of our key manufacturing facilities is unable to produce our products for an extended period of time, our sales may be reduced by the shortfall caused by the disruption and we may not be able to meet our customers' needs, which could cause them to seek other suppliers. In particular, production disruptions at our manufacturing facilities that produce chemicals used as inputs in the production of chemicals in other business segments, such as acetic acid, VAM and formaldehyde, could have a more significant adverse effect on our business and financial performance and results of operations to the extent of such vertical integration. Furthermore, to the extent a production disruption occurs at a manufacturing facility that has been operating at or near full capacity, the resulting shortage of our product could be particularly harmful because production at such manufacturing facility may not be able to reach levels achieved prior to the disruption.
We have experienced recent disruptions of the type described above. In February 2021, Winter Storm Uri led to worldwide supply disruptions, loss of energy and critical raw materials at our Texas sites and impacted nearly all of our employees in Texas, where we are headquartered and where several of our manufacturing sites are located. This storm led us to proactively and temporarily shut down our Texas production facilities in a controlled manner to protect our employees, communities, and assets, and the necessity of this decision led to lost production and negatively impacted our financial results for that quarter. In August 2020, to protect our employees and safeguard the assets at our Clear Lake facility, we temporarily, voluntarily ceased production at our Clear Lake, Texas facility during the landfall of Hurricane Laura. During 2019, production of acetic acid and VAM was disrupted due to a localized fire at our Clear Lake, Texas facility, which caused reduced sales and profits.

20

Table of Contents
Disruptions or interruptions of production or operations could also occur due to accidents, interruptions in sources of raw materials, cybersecurity incidents, terrorism or political unrest, or other unforeseen events or delays in construction or operation of facilities, including as a result of geopolitical conditions, the occurrence of acts of war or terrorist incidents or as a result of weather, natural disasters, or other crises including public health crises.
Failure to develop new products and production technologies or to implement productivity and cost reduction initiatives successfully, may harm our competitive position.
Our operating results depend significantly on the development of commercially viable new products, product grades and applications, as well as process technologies. If we are unsuccessful in developing new products, applications and production processes in the future, including failing to leverage our opportunity pipeline in our Engineered Materials segment, our competitive position and operating results may be negatively affected. However, as we invest in new technology, we face the risk of unanticipated operational or commercialization difficulties, including an inability to obtain necessary permits or governmental approvals, the development of competing technologies, failure of facilities or processes to operate in accordance with specifications or expectations, construction delays, cost over-runs, the unavailability of financing, required materials or equipment and various other factors. Likewise, we have undertaken and are continuing to undertake initiatives in all of our business segments to improve productivity and performance and to generate cost savings. These initiatives may not be completed or beneficial or the estimated cost savings from such activities may not be realized.
We could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers or lose customers as a result of the failure of our products to meet certain quality specifications.
Our products provide important performance attributes to our customers' products. If one of our products fails to perform in a manner consistent with applicable quality specifications, a customer could seek replacement of the product or damages for costs incurred as a result of the product failing to perform as guaranteed. A successful claim or series of claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could result in a loss of one or more key customers.
Our production facilities, including facilities we own and/or operate and operations at our facilities owned and/or operated by third parties, handle the processing of some volatile and hazardous materials that subject us to operating and other risks that could have a negative effect on our operating results.
Although we take precautions to enhance the safety of, and minimize the disruption to, our operations and operations at our facilities owned and/or operated by third parties, we are subject to operating and other risks associated with chemical manufacturing, including the storage and transportation of raw materials, finished products and waste. These risks include, among other things, pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures, explosions and fires and discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances. In addition, we may have limited control over operations at our facilities owned and/or operated by third parties or such operations may not be fully integrated into our safety programs.
These operating and other risks can cause personal injury, property damage, third-party damages and environmental contamination, and may result in the shutdown of affected facilities and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The occurrence of any of these events may disrupt production and have a negative effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, our operating results and cash flows.
Our future success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and our rights to use our intellectual property. Our inability to protect and enforce these rights could reduce our ability to maintain our industry position and our profit margins.
We rely on our patents, trademarks, copyrights, know-how and trade secrets, and patents and other technology licensed from third parties, to protect our investment in research and development and our competitive commercial positions in manufacturing and marketing our products. We have adopted internal policies for protecting our know-how and trade secrets. In addition, our practice is to seek patent or trade secret protection for significant developments that provide us competitive advantages and freedom to practice for our businesses. Patents may cover catalysts, processes, products, intermediate products and product uses. These patents are usually filed in strategic countries throughout the world and provide varying periods and scopes of protection based on the filing date and the type of patent application. The legal life and scope of protection provided by a patent may vary among those countries in which we seek protection. As patents expire, the catalysts, processes, products, intermediate products and product uses described and claimed in those patents generally may become available for use by the public subject to our continued protection for associated know-how and trade secrets. We also monitor intellectual property of others, especially patents that could impact our rights to commercially implement research and development, our rights to manufacture

21

Table of Contents
and market our products, and our rights to use know-how and trade secrets. We will not intentionally infringe upon the valid intellectual property rights of others, and we will continue to assess and take actions as necessary to protect our positions. We also seek to register trademarks as a means of protecting the brand names of our products, which brand names become more important once the corresponding product or process patents have expired. We operate in regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce and our continued growth strategy may result in us seeking intellectual property protection in additional regions with similar challenges. We also monitor the trademarks of others and take action when our trademark rights are being infringed upon. If we are not successful in protecting or maintaining our patent, license, trademark or other intellectual property rights, or protecting our rights to commercially make, market and sell our products, our net sales, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected.
Our business is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our suppliers, customers and business partners and the industries in which our suppliers, customers and business partners participate are cyclical in nature, both of which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Our business is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our key suppliers, customers and business partners and reductions in demand for our customers' products. These risks include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, delays in or interruptions of the supply of raw materials we purchase and bankruptcy of customers, suppliers or other creditors. Furthermore, some of the industries in which our end-use customers participate, such as the automotive, electrical, construction and textile industries, are highly competitive, to a large extent driven by end-use applications, and may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect demand for and the pricing of our products. In addition, many of these industries are cyclical in nature, thus posing risks to us that vary throughout the year. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition.
We may incur significant charges in the event we close or divest all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility.
We periodically assess our manufacturing operations in order to manufacture and distribute our products in the most efficient manner. Based on our assessments, we may make capital improvements to modernize certain units, move manufacturing or distribution capabilities from one plant or facility to another plant or facility, discontinue manufacturing or distributing certain products or close or divest all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility. We also have shared services agreements at several of our plants and if such agreements are terminated or revised, we would assess and potentially adjust our manufacturing operations. The closure or divestiture of all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility could result in future charges that could be significant. See Note 4 - Acquisitions, Dispositions and Plant Closures in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
We may not be able to complete future acquisitions or joint venture transactions or successfully integrate them into our business, which could adversely affect our business or results of operations.
As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions and joint venture opportunities. Successful accomplishment of this objective may be limited by the availability and suitability of acquisition candidates, the ability to obtain regulatory approvals necessary to complete a planned transaction, and by our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. Acquisitions and joint venture transactions involve numerous risks, including difficulty determining appropriate valuation, integrating operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired lines or businesses, personnel turnover and the diversion of management's attention from other business matters. In addition, we may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits from these transactions in the time frame that we anticipate, or at all, which could adversely affect our business or results of operations. See Strategic Affiliates in Item 1. Business and Note 4 - Acquisitions, Dispositions and Plant Closures for further information.
The insurance coverage that we maintain may not fully cover all operational risks.
We maintain property, business interruption, casualty and cyber/information security insurance but such insurance may not cover all of the risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental remediation. In the future, the types of insurance we obtain and the level of coverage we maintain may be inadequate or we may be unable to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost.

22

Table of Contents
Differences in views with our joint venture participants may cause our joint ventures not to operate according to their business plans, which may adversely affect our results of operations.
We currently participate in a number of joint ventures and may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. The nature of a joint venture requires us to work cooperatively with unaffiliated third parties. Differences in views among joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or failure to agree on major decisions. If these differences cause the joint ventures to deviate from their business plans or to fail to achieve their desired operating performance, our results of operations could be adversely affected.
Our significant non-U.S. operations expose us to global exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely impact our profitability.
We conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the U.S. Consequently, fluctuations in currencies of other countries, especially the Euro, may materially affect our operating results. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during the reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the cost of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rates can also impact the competitiveness of products produced in certain jurisdictions and exported for sale into other jurisdictions. These changes may impact the value received for the sale of our goods versus those of our competitors.
In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into a purchase or sales transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiary's functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies or the currencies of large developing countries, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction and translation risks effectively.
We use financial instruments to hedge certain exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, but those hedges in most cases cover existing balance sheet exposures and not future transactional exposures. We cannot guarantee that our hedging strategies will be effective. In addition, the use of financial instruments creates counterparty settlement risk. Failure to effectively manage these risks could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
We are subject to information or operational technology cybersecurity threats that could materially affect our business.
We have been and will continue to be subject to advanced and persistent threats in the areas of information and operational technology security and fraud. We seek to prevent unauthorized access to our information and operational technology systems and to detect and investigate any cybersecurity incidents that may occur, however in some cases we might be unaware of a particular incident or its magnitude and effects. At the current time, we may face increased information technology security and fraud risks due to our increased reliance on working remotely during the COVID-19 pandemic, which may create additional information security vulnerabilities and/or magnify the impact of any disruption in information technology systems. Additionally, we may be exposed to unauthorized access to our information or operational technology systems through undetected vulnerabilities in our service providers' information systems or software.
The theft, misuse or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information or the compromising of our systems or networks (including through ransomware or denial-of-service attacks) could harm our competitive position, cause operational disruption (including the potential to disrupt or compromise our control of physical plant operations at our manufacturing sites), reduce the value of our investment in research and development of new products and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business or results of operations. To the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our employees', customers' or vendors' confidential or personally identifiable information, we may incur liability or suffer reputational damage in the marketplace as a result. To the extent that any security breach impacts operations at our manufacturing sites, we may experience production or shipping disruptions. We maintain cyber/information security insurance, but any losses may be beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our policy.

23

Table of Contents
Information and operational security threats and methods of perpetrating fraud or misappropriating information are constantly evolving and becoming more complex, which increases the difficulty and expense of defending against these threats. Although we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including insurance, monitoring of our systems and networks, employee training, crisis simulations and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products and services remain potentially vulnerable to increasingly sophisticated advanced persistent threats that may have a material effect on our business. In addition, the devotion of additional resources to the security of our information or operational technology systems in the future could significantly increase the cost of doing business or otherwise adversely impact our financial results.
Regulatory, Legal, Environmental and Tax Risks
Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations and/or changes in applicable laws or regulations may adversely affect our business and financial results as a whole.
We are subject to extensive international, national, state, local and other laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws, including antitrust and anticorruption laws, rules, regulations or court decisions, could expose us to fines, penalties and other costs. For example, in December 2019 we announced the recording of a reserve in connection with a competition law investigation by the European Commission based on certain past ethylene purchases by certain subsidiaries of the Company, and in July 2020, we announced that we had reached a final settlement of $92 million with respect to this investigation. The Company paid this settlement in full on January 12, 2021. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and employee training designed to ensure compliance with these laws, rules, regulations and court decisions, there can be no assurance that our employees and business partners and other third parties acting on our behalf will comply with these laws, rules, regulations and court decisions, which could result in fines, penalties and costs and damage to our business reputation.
Moreover, changes in laws or regulations, including the more aggressive enforcement of such laws and regulations, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements (including import or export licensing requirements), or changes in reporting requirements of the U.S., Canadian, Mexican, German, EU or Asian governmental agencies, could increase the cost of doing business in these regions. In addition, enforcement of environmental or other governmental policy may result in plant shut downs or significantly decreased production, such as in China on high pollution days. For example, in 2021 we experienced energy curtailment mandates from the government in the Chinese province where our Nanjing production facility is located, which forced us to reduce and curtail production at that site. Any of these types of conditions, including the failure to obtain or maintain operating permits for our business, may have an effect on our business and financial results as a whole and may result in volatile current and future prices for our products and raw materials. See Note 20 - Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Our business exposes us to potential product liability, warranty, and tort claims, and recalls, which could adversely affect our financial condition and performance.
The development, manufacture and sale of specialty chemical products by us, including products produced for the food and beverage, cigarette, medical device, pharmaceutical, automobile, construction and aerospace, industries, involves a risk of exposure to product liability, warranty, and tort claims, product recalls, product seizures and related adverse publicity. A product liability, warranty, or tort claim or judgment against us that is larger than those typically experienced in the regular course of business could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, affect consumer or customer confidence in our products, and divert management's attention from other responsibilities. Although we maintain product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that this type or the level of coverage is adequate or that we will be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. A product recall or a significant partially or completely uninsured judgment against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Although we have standard contracting policies and controls, we may not always be able to contractually limit our exposure to third party claims should our failure to perform result in downstream supply disruptions or product recalls.
Environmental regulations and other obligations relating to environmental matters could subject us to liability for fines, clean-ups and other damages, require us to incur significant costs to modify our operations and increase our manufacturing and delivery costs.
Costs related to our compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and potential obligations with respect to sites currently or formerly owned or operated by us, may have a negative impact on our operating results. We also have obligations related to the indemnity agreement contained in the demerger and transfer agreement between Celanese GmbH and Hoechst AG for environmental matters arising out of certain divestitures that took place prior to the demerger. See Note 13 - Environmental in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.

24

Table of Contents
Our operations are subject to extensive international, national, state, local and other laws and regulations that govern environmental, health and safety matters and that regulate the handling, manufacture, use, emission and disposal of products, materials and hazardous and non-hazardous waste. If we violate any one of those laws or regulations, we can be held liable for substantial fines and other sanctions, including limitations on our operations as a result of changes to or revocations of environmental permits involved. We could also face claims for damages from individuals or groups for alleged violations of these laws or regulations.
We also incur substantial capital and other costs to comply with environmental, health and safety requirements. Stricter environmental, safety and health laws and regulations could result in substantial additional costs and liabilities to us or limitations on our operations. Consequently, compliance with these laws and regulations may negatively affect our earnings and cash flows in a particular reporting period. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information.
For more information on risks we face specifically related to climate change and related potential regulation, see the risk factor titled "We are subject to financial, regulatory and physical risks associated with climate change as well as potential legislation, regulation and international accords to address it" below.
Changes in environmental, health and safety regulations in the jurisdictions where we manufacture or sell our products could lead to a decrease in demand for our products.
New or revised governmental regulations, independent studies or consumer or societal perceptions relating to the effect of our products on health, safety or the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing our products. In addition, products we produce, including VAM, formaldehyde and polymers derived from formaldehyde, may be classified and labeled in a manner that would adversely affect demand for such products. For example, in 2019 the EPA designated formaldehyde as a high-priority substance under the Toxic Substances Control Act and the substance is currently undergoing risk evaluation. In addition, in 2012 the International Agency for Research on Cancer ("IARC"), a research agency within the World Health Organization, classified formaldehyde as carcinogenic to humans (Group 1) based on epidemiological studies linking formaldehyde exposure to nasopharyngeal cancer, a rare cancer in humans, and leukemia. In 2011, a similar conclusion was reached by the National Toxicology Program ("NTP"), a U.S. inter-agency research program. We anticipate that the results of the IARC's and the NTP's reviews will continue to be examined and considered by government regulatory agencies with responsibility for setting worker and environmental exposure standards and labeling requirements.
Other initiatives, including the Chemical Strategy for Sustainability initiative currently to be undertaken by the EU as part of the Green Deal will potentially require toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. These assessments may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and additional regulatory requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling and/or use of the subject chemicals.
Additionally, increased social and regulatory focus on climate change could lead to changes in the demand behavior of our customers or their end-customers, and could result in reduced customer demand for products made from materials that are perceived to be significant contributors to greenhouse gas emissions and global climate change, and we may not be able to fully address these concerns through changes in manufacturing methods or use of more sustainable materials and processes.
Such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. Such a decrease in demand would likely have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.
We are subject to financial, regulatory and physical risks associated with climate change as well as potential legislation, regulation and international accords to address it.
Greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions have become the subject of significant international, national, regional, state and local attention. For example, the EPA has promulgated rules concerning reporting GHG emissions. The European Commission has also embarked on the European Green Deal initiative with the goal of making the EU carbon neutral by 2050, which is expected to lead to additional statutory and regulatory requirements. In addition, regulation of greenhouse gas also could occur pursuant to future treaty obligations, statutory or regulatory changes or new climate change legislation intended to reduce or mitigate the effects of GHG emissions.

25

Table of Contents
A number of our operations are within jurisdictions that have or are developing regulatory regimes governing GHG emissions, which may lead to direct and indirect costs on our operations. Some jurisdictions have emissions reduction measures directed at the power or oil and gas sectors, which could result in higher power input costs for us. Other regulations that are being implemented or contemplated include the potential for restrictions on GHG emissions, cap and trade emissions trading systems, taxes on GHG emissions, fuel, and energy, or carbon import charges on certain products among other provisions. These measures, if and where enacted, may significantly increase our costs of operations or require us to incur significant additional capital costs for the installation of equipment to mitigate GHG emissions for our sites' manufacturing operations.
Physical impacts of climate change, such as increased frequency and severity of hurricanes and floods and impact on sea levels, may also impact our facilities and operations and those of our key suppliers. A number of our sites are located in areas that are exposed to weather events and changing sea levels (such as the Texas Gulf Coast) and that have been impacted by hurricanes and other weather events in the past as described elsewhere in these risk factors. To the extent climate change exacerbates these threats, our operations and supply chains could experience increased levels of disruptions.
We closely monitor developments in this area, but there is significant uncertainty regarding what legislative or regulatory requirements may be put in place, which makes it impossible for us to predict the longer-term impact these measures have on our operations. However, we believe that future legislative and regulatory developments related to climate change are likely, which could materially increase operating costs in the chemical industry and thereby increase our manufacturing and delivery costs.
Our aspirations, goals, and initiatives related to sustainability, and our public statements and disclosures regarding them, expose us to risks.
We have developed and publicized, and expect to continue to establish, goals, targets, and other objectives related to sustainability matters. Such statements reflect our current plans at the time they are made, and do not constitute a guarantee that they will be achieved. Our efforts to research, establish, accomplish, and accurately report on these goals, targets, and objectives could expose us to operational, reputational, financial, legal, and other risks. Our ability to achieve any stated goal, target, or objective is and will be subject to numerous factors and conditions, many of which are outside of our control, such as evolving regulatory or quasi-regulatory sustainability standards, differing requirements and the pace of changes in technology.
We may face increased scrutiny from the investment community, other stakeholders, regulators, and the media related to our sustainability activities, including the goals, targets, and objectives that we announce, and our methodologies and timelines for pursuing them. If our sustainability practices do not meet investor or other stakeholder expectations and standards, which continue to evolve, our reputation, ability to attract or retain employees, and attractiveness as an investment, business partner, or as an acquiror could be negatively impacted. Similarly, our failure or perceived failure to pursue or fulfill our goals, targets, and objectives, to comply with ethical, environmental, or other standards, regulations, or expectations, or to satisfy various reporting standards with respect to these matters, within the timelines that we announce, or at all, could have the same negative impacts, as well as expose us to government enforcement actions and private litigation. Even if we achieve the goals, targets, and objectives we set, we may not realize all of the benefits that it expected at the time they were established.
Our business and financial results may be adversely affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings.
We are involved in legal and regulatory proceedings, lawsuits, claims and investigations in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. The outcome of existing proceedings, lawsuits, claims and investigations may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of such proceedings, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict. Various factors or developments can lead us to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or permit us to make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments, or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling, settlement, or unfavorable development could result in charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition in any particular period. See Note 13 - Environmental and Note 20 - Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.

26

Table of Contents
Changes in, or the interpretation of, tax legislation or rates throughout the world, or the resolution of tax examinations or audits, could materially impact our results.
Our future effective tax rate and related tax balance sheet attributes could be impacted by changes in tax legislation throughout the world. The overall tax environment has made it increasingly challenging for multinational corporations to operate with certainty about taxation in many jurisdictions. For example, the European Commission has been conducting investigations focusing on whether local country tax rulings or tax legislation provide preferential tax treatment that violates EU state aid rules. In addition, the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development, which represents a coalition of member countries, is supporting changes to numerous long-standing tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting initiatives, which focus on a number of issues, including the shifting of profits among affiliated entities located in different tax jurisdictions. Furthermore, a number of countries where we do business, including the U.S. and many countries in the EU, have changed or are considering changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to multinational corporations. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, expirations of tax holidays or rulings, changes in the assessment regarding the realization of deferred tax assets, or changes in tax laws and regulations or their interpretation. The increasingly complex global tax environment and related legislative developments could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.
In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "TCJA") was enacted and was effective January 1, 2018. The U.S. Treasury has issued various final and proposed regulations supplementing the TCJA provisions since 2018. See Note 16 - Income Taxes in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
We are subject to the regular examination of our income tax returns by various tax authorities. Examinations in material jurisdictions or changes in laws, rules, regulations or interpretations by local taxing authorities could result in impacts to tax years open under statute or to foreign operating structures currently in place.
Our tax returns are under audit for the years 2013 through 2015 by the United States, the Netherlands and Germany. These authorities have proposed adjustments to transfer pricing and the reallocation of income between the related jurisdictions to open tax years through 2019. We are currently evaluating these proposals and all potential remedies. If this matter is resolved in a manner inconsistent with our expectations or we are unsuccessful in defending our position, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted.
We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of tax examinations or audits. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations or changes in laws, rules, regulations or interpretations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. It is possible the outcomes from these examinations will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results in future periods.
Risks Related to Our Human Capital
Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the identification and development of talent to succeed senior management.
Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel including our management team. The inability to recruit and retain talented employees or the unexpected loss of such talented employees or key personnel may adversely affect our operations. In 2021, like many companies, we experienced an increasingly competitive hiring environment for skilled employees at our manufacturing and other sites, which in some cases has increased, or may in the future increase, the cost of retaining or hiring talented employees, particularly in technical manufacturing roles critical to our success.
In addition, we rely on our senior management team specifically, therefore our future success depends in part on our ability to retain those members of senior management and to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management. The hiring and retention of key personnel and appropriate senior management succession planning will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategies.
Significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans and our pension cost.
The cost of our pension plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves many uncertainties during those periods of time. Our funding policy for pension plans is to accumulate plan assets that, over the long run, will approximate the present value of projected benefit obligations. Our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level and value of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected

27

Table of Contents
long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets will likely result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets and a change in the discount rate or mortality assumptions, which will likely result in an increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations. The combined impact of these changes will affect the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. In recent years, an extended duration strategy in the asset portfolio has been implemented in some plans to reduce the influence of liability volatility due to changes in interest rates. If the funded status of a pension plan declines, we may be required to make unscheduled contributions in addition to those contributions for which we have already planned. See Note 12 - Benefit Obligations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Some of our employees are unionized, represented by workers councils or are subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws of the U.S.
As of December 31, 2021, we had 8,529 employees globally. Approximately 15% of our 3,075 U.S.-based employees are unionized. In addition, a large number of our employees are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other employment rights than the laws of the U.S. Such employment rights require us to work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect any changes to labor agreements. Most of our employees in Europe are represented by workers councils and/or unions that must approve any changes in terms and conditions of employment, including potentially salaries and benefits. They may also impede efforts to restructure our workforce. Although we believe we have a good working relationship with our employees and their legal representatives, a strike, work stoppage, or slowdown by our employees could occur, resulting in a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs.
Risks Related to Our Indebtedness
Our level of indebtedness and other liabilities could diminish our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations or refinance our existing indebtedness when it matures, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or the chemicals industry and prevent us from meeting obligations under our indebtedness.
See Note 11 - Debt in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information about our indebtedness. See Note 12 - Benefit Obligations, Note 13 - Environmental and Note 20 - Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information about our other obligations.
Our level of indebtedness and other liabilities could have important consequences, including:
•Increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions, including exacerbating the impact of any adverse business effects that are determined to be material adverse events under our existing senior credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement") or our indentures (the "Indentures") governing our $500 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior unsecured notes due 2022, €450 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.125% senior unsecured notes due 2023, $500 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.500% senior unsecured notes due 2024, €300 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.250% senior unsecured notes due 2025, $400 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.400% senior unsecured notes due 2026, €500 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.125% senior unsecured notes due 2027 and €500 million in aggregate principal amount of 0.625% senior unsecured notes due 2028 (collectively, the "Senior Notes");
•Requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness and amounts payable in connection with the satisfaction of our other liabilities, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities or pay dividends on our common stock, par value $0.0001 per share ("Common Stock");
•Exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest;
•Exposing us to the risk of changes in currency exchange rates as certain of our borrowings are denominated in foreign currencies; and
•Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes.

28

Table of Contents
Restrictive covenants in our debt agreements may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions and may diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness or pay dividends.
The Credit Agreement, the Indentures and the Receivables Purchase Agreement governing our receivables securitization facility each contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. The Credit Agreement and the Indentures contain covenants including, but not limited to, restrictions on our and certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional debt; incur liens securing debt; merge or consolidate with any other person; and sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Issuer's assets or the assets of certain subsidiaries. Additionally, the Credit Agreement requires the maintenance of certain financial ratios.
Such restrictions in our debt obligations could result in us having to obtain the consent of our lenders and holders of the Senior Notes in order to take certain actions. Disruptions in credit markets may prevent us from obtaining or make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain such consents. Our ability to expand our business or to address declines in our business may be limited if we are unable to obtain such consents.
A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, a default under the Credit Agreement could permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness under the Credit Agreement and to terminate any commitments to lend. If the lenders under the Credit Agreement accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness, we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay such amounts or our other indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. In such event, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.
Celanese and Celanese U.S. are holding companies and depend on subsidiaries to satisfy their obligations under the Senior Notes and the guarantee of Celanese U.S.'s obligations under the Senior Notes and the Credit Agreement by Celanese.
As holding companies, Celanese and Celanese U.S. conduct substantially all of their operations through their subsidiaries, which own substantially all of our consolidated assets. Consequently, the principal source of cash to pay Celanese and Celanese U.S.'s obligations, including obligations under the Senior Notes and the guarantee of Celanese U.S.'s obligations under the Credit Agreement and the Indentures by Celanese, is the cash that our subsidiaries generate from their operations. We cannot assure that our subsidiaries will be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable Celanese U.S. and/or Celanese to make payments in respect of their obligations. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, applicable country or state laws, regulatory limitations and terms of our debt instruments may limit our subsidiaries' ability to distribute cash to Celanese U.S. and Celanese. While the Credit Agreement and the Indentures limit the ability of our subsidiaries to put restrictions on paying dividends or making other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions, which may have the effect of significantly restricting the applicability of those limits. In the event Celanese U.S. and/or Celanese do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, Celanese U.S. and/or Celanese may be unable to make required payments on the indebtedness under the Credit Agreement, the Indentures, the guarantee of Celanese U.S.'s obligations under the Credit Agreement and the Indentures by Celanese, or our other indebtedness.

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments
None.

Item 2.  Properties
Description of Property
We own or lease numerous production and manufacturing facilities throughout the world. We also own or lease other properties, including office buildings, warehouses, pipelines, research and development facilities and sales offices. We continuously review and evaluate our facilities as a part of our strategy to optimize our business portfolio. The following table sets forth a list of our principal offices, production and other facilities throughout the world as of December 31, 2021.

29

Table of Contents

----------------------------- ------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Site Leased/Owned Products/Functions
Corporate Offices
Amsterdam, Netherlands Leased Administrative offices
Budapest, Hungary Leased Administrative offices
Irving, Texas, U.S. Leased Corporate headquarters
Nanjing, China Leased Administrative offices
Shanghai, China Leased Administrative offices
Sulzbach, Germany Leased Administrative offices
Engineered Materials
Auburn Hills, Michigan, U.S. Leased Automotive Development Center
Bishop, Texas, U.S. Owned POM, UHMW-PE, Compounding
Evansville, Indiana, U.S. Owned Compounding
Ferrara, Italy Leased Compounding
Florence, Kentucky, U.S. Owned Compounding
Forli, Italy Leased Compounding
Frankfurt am Main, Germany(1) Leased POM, Compounding, Sorbates, Sunett® sweetener
Kaiserslautern, Germany(1) Owned LFRT
Nanjing, China(1) Owned LFRT, UHMW-PE, Compounding
Newport, Wales, U.K. Owned TPV
Oberhausen, Germany(1) Leased UHMW-PE
Pensacola, Florida, U.S. Owned TPV
Shelby, North Carolina, U.S. Leased LCP
Silao, Mexico Leased Compounding
Silvassa, Gurjarat, India Owned Compounding
Suzano, Brazil(1) Leased Compounding
Suzhou, China Owned Compounding
Utzenfeld, Germany Owned Compounding
Acetate Tow
Lanaken, Belgium Owned Acetate tow
Narrows, Virginia, U.S. Owned Acetate tow, Acetate flake
Acetyl Chain
Bay City, Texas, U.S.(1) Leased VAM
Bishop, Texas, U.S. Owned Formaldehyde, Paraformaldehyde
Boucherville, Quebec, Canada Owned Conventional emulsions
Cangrejera, Mexico Owned Acetic anhydride, Ethyl acetate, Acetone derivatives
Clear Lake, Texas, U.S.(2) Owned Acetic acid, VAM, Methanol
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada Owned Low-density polyethylene resins, Ethylene vinyl acetate
Enoree, South Carolina, U.S. Owned VAE emulsions
Frankfurt am Main, Germany(1) Leased Acetaldehyde, Conventional emulsions, VAE emulsions, VAM, RDP
Geleen, Netherlands Owned VAE emulsions, RDP
Jurong Island, Singapore(1) Leased Acetic acid, Butyl acetate, Ethyl acetate, VAE emulsions, VAM
Moosleerau, Switzerland Owned RDP
Nanjing, China(1) Leased Acetic acid, Acetic anhydride, Conventional emulsions, VAE emulsions, VAM
Perstorp, Sweden Owned Conventional emulsions, VAE emulsions
Shanghai, China(1) Leased RDP
__________________________
(1)Celanese owns the assets on this site and leases the land through the terms of a long-term land lease.
(2)Methanol is produced by our joint venture, Fairway, in which Celanese owns a 50% interest.
Celanese also has entered into strategic ventures with partners in various locations around the world. See Item 1. Business for a discussion of our investments in affiliates and their respective site locations.

30

Table of Contents
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings
The Company is involved in legal and regulatory proceedings, lawsuits, claims and investigations incidental to the normal conduct of its business, relating to such matters as product liability, land disputes, insurance coverage disputes, contracts, employment, antitrust and competition, intellectual property, personal injury and other actions in tort, workers' compensation, chemical exposure, asbestos exposure, taxes, trade compliance, acquisitions and divestitures, claims of legacy stockholders, past waste disposal practices and release of chemicals into the environment. The Company is actively defending those matters where it is named as a defendant. Due to the inherent subjectivity of assessments and unpredictability of outcomes of legal proceedings, the Company's litigation accruals and estimates of possible loss or range of possible loss may not represent the ultimate loss to the Company from legal proceedings. See Note 13 - Environmental and Note 20 - Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of material environmental matters and material commitments and contingencies related to legal and regulatory proceedings. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for certain risk factors relating to these legal proceedings.

Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures
None.
Information about our Executive Officers
The names, ages and biographies of our executive officers as of February 10, 2022 are as follows:

-------------------- --- -------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name Age Position
Lori J. Ryerkerk 59 Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President
Scott A. Richardson 45 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thomas F. Kelly 56 Senior Vice President, Engineered Materials
John G. Fotheringham 53 Senior Vice President, Acetyls
A. Lynne Puckett 59 Senior Vice President and General Counsel
Vanessa A. Dupuis 48 Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer

Lori J. Ryerkerk was named our Chief Executive Officer and President and a member of our board of directors effective May 2019. In April 2020, she was named Chairman of the Board. Previously, Ms. Ryerkerk was the Executive Vice President of Global Manufacturing, the largest business in Shell Downstream Inc., where she led a team of 30,000 employees and contractors at refineries and chemical sites worldwide. Ms. Ryerkerk joined Shell in May 2010 as the Regional Vice President of Manufacturing in Europe and Africa, and was responsible for the operation of five Shell manufacturing facilities and five joint ventures. In October 2013, she was named Executive Vice President of Global Manufacturing, Shell Downstream Inc. Before joining Shell, she was Senior Vice President, Refining, Supply and Terminals at Hess Corporation, where she was responsible for refineries, terminals and a distribution network, and supply and trading. Prior to that, Ms. Ryerkerk spent 24 years with ExxonMobil where she started her career as a process technologist at a refinery in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Throughout her tenure at ExxonMobil, she took on a variety of operational and senior leadership roles in Refining and Chemicals Manufacturing, Power Generation, and various other groups including Supply, Economics and Planning, HSSE and Public Affairs/Government Relations. Ms. Ryerkerk received a Chemical Engineering degree from Iowa State University. She serves on the board of Eaton Corporation plc, a diversified power management company, and previously served on the board of directors of Axalta Coating Systems, a leading provider of liquid and powder coatings.
Scott A. Richardson was named Chief Financial Officer for Celanese Corporation in February 2018 after serving as Senior Vice President of the Engineered Materials business since December 2015, where he had global responsibility for strategy, product and business management, planning and portfolio development, and pipeline management. He was promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2020. Previously, Mr. Richardson served as Vice President and General Manager of the Acetyl Chain since 2011. Mr. Richardson has progressed through several Celanese roles including global commercial director, Acetyls; manager of Investor Relations; business analysis manager, Acetyls; and business line controller, Polyols and Solvents. He joined Celanese in 2005. Prior to joining Celanese, Mr. Richardson held various finance, operational and leadership roles at American Airlines. He earned a Bachelor of Arts in Accounting from Westminster College and a Master of Business Administration from Texas Christian University.

31

Table of Contents
Thomas F. Kelly was named Senior Vice President, Engineered Materials in April 2020, leading the Engineered Materials business with global responsibility for product and business management, planning and portfolio development, and pipeline management. He had previously served as Vice President of Engineered Materials with Celanese since January 2019. He re-joined Celanese in January 2019 after serving with Cabot Microelectronics (now CMC Materials), a global supplier of consumable materials to semiconductor manufacturers and pipeline companies, from September 2016 to January 2019. At Cabot Microelectronics he held the roles of Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and Vice President of Corporate Development. He was previously with Celanese from August 2012 to September 2016 as Director of Raw Materials, where he led a team responsible for sourcing strategic raw materials. Before joining Celanese, he had additional roles in supply chain, sales and manufacturing management with Chemtura, Cabot Microelectronics and Rohm & Haas. Mr. Kelly also serves (since 2021) as a board member of Nucera Solutions, a provider of specialty polymer solutions, and served as a board member of Vertellus Global Holdings LLC, a supplier of specialty chemical products, from August 2019 through December 2020. He holds a Master of Business Administration from Drexel University, and Master's and Bachelor's Degrees in Chemical Engineering from Villanova University.
John G. Fotheringham was named Senior Vice President, Acetyls in May 2020 and has global responsibility for the Celanese Acetyl Chain business. Prior to his current role, Mr. Fotheringham had served as Vice President of Global Acetic Acid & Celanese Europe since January 2017. He joined Celanese from ITW (Illinois Tool Works), a global diversified manufacturer of specialized industrial equipment, where he served as Vice President and General Manager from September 2016 to January 2017 with leadership responsibility in industrial applications including industrial lubrication and hygiene. From February 2014 to August 2016, he was Vice President with Wacker Chemie in Germany, where he was responsible for the global emulsions and resins business. Prior to joining Wacker, he was with Celanese for over 20 years in roles of increasing responsibility in the areas of commercial, supply chain and mergers and acquisitions. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Chemistry and Business Management from Kingston University, London.
A. Lynne Puckett joined Celanese Corporation in February 2019 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Prior to that, Ms. Puckett was Senior Vice President‚ General Counsel and Secretary of Colfax Corporation since 2010. Prior to Colfax‚ she was a Partner with the law firm of Hogan Lovells. Her experience includes a broad range of corporate and transactional matters‚ including mergers and acquisitions‚ venture capital financings‚ debt and equity offerings‚ and general corporate and securities law matters. Before entering the practice of law‚ Ms. Puckett worked for the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency and a major U.S. defense contractor. She currently serves on the board of directors of Markel Corporation, an insurance and investment operations holding company. Ms. Puckett received a Juris Doctor degree from the University of Maryland School of Law and a Bachelor of Science degree from James Madison University.
Vanessa A. Dupuis was named Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer in February of 2021. Ms. Dupuis joined Celanese in 2017 as the Head of Global Talent Management. In this role, she was responsible for supporting business growth by implementing strategies to attract, develop, engage and retain talent around the globe. In 2019, Ms. Dupuis assumed additional responsibilities as the Head of Human Resources for Celanese Corporate Functions, Procurement and Customer Experience. In this expanded role, Ms. Dupuis served as a strategic human resources partner to the CFO, General Counsel, Head of Procurement and Head of Customer Experience in defining and implementing workforce strategies that ensure long-term success for the Company. In 2020, Ms. Dupuis was named vice president of Global Total Rewards and HR Operations. Over her 20-year career, Ms. Dupuis has served in a variety of human resources leadership roles across several industries such as energy, financial services, technology and healthcare. Prior to joining Celanese, Ms. Dupuis served as Head of Executive Development & Leadership Assessments for Duke Energy; as Human Resources Executive for Bank of America; and as a Learning & Development Partner for Dell Inc. Ms. Dupuis earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Communications from Marist College, and a Master of Arts degree in Social & Organizational Psychology from Columbia University.

32

Table of Contents
PART II
Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Market Information
Our common stock, par value $0.0001 per share ("Common Stock"), has traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "CE" since January 21, 2005.
Holders
As of January 28, 2022, there were 83 holders of record of our Common Stock. By including persons holding shares in broker accounts under street names, however, we estimate we have approximately 160,000 beneficial holders.
Dividend Policy
The amount available to us to pay cash dividends is not currently restricted by our existing senior credit facility and our indentures governing our senior unsecured notes. Certain indentures for notes issued prior to 2016 have provisions that restrict the amount available to us to pay cash dividends in the event of a ratings downgrade below investment grade by two or more credit rating agencies. Also, the general corporation law of the State of Delaware imposes additional restrictions on the payment of dividends by all Delaware corporations that do not currently limit our ability to pay our current and anticipated regular cash dividends. See Note 14 - Stockholders' Equity in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Celanese Purchases of its Equity Securities
Information regarding repurchases of our Common Stock during the three months ended December 31, 2021 is as follows:

--------------------- ---------------------------------- --------------------------- - ---------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------- - -------------
Period Total Numberof Shares Purchased(1) AveragePrice Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Program Approximate DollarValue of SharesRemaining that May BePurchased Under the Program(2)
October 1 - 31, 2021 556,367 $ 162.24 556,367 $ 1,173,000,000
November 1 - 30, 2021 310,903 $ 166.53 310,903 $ 1,121,000,000
December 1 - 31, 2021 356,381 $ 162.72 356,381 $ 1,063,000,000
Total 1,223,651 1,223,651

___________________________
(1)May include shares withheld from employees to cover their withholding requirements for personal income taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock.
(2)Our Board of Directors has authorized the aggregate repurchase of $6.9 billion of our Common Stock since February 2008.
See Note 14 - Stockholders' Equity in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.

33

Table of Contents
Performance Graph
The following performance graph compares the cumulative total return on Celanese Corporation Common Stock from December 31, 2016 through December 31, 2021 to that of the Standard & Poor's ("S&P") 500 Stock Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Chemicals Index. Cumulative total return represents the change in stock price and the amount of dividends received during the indicated period, assuming reinvestment of all dividends. The performance graph assumes an investment of $100 on December 31, 2016. The stock performance shown in the graph is included in response to SEC requirements and is not intended to forecast or to be indicative of future performance.
Comparison of Cumulative Total Return

The above performance graph and related information shall not be deemed "soliciting material" or to be "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing.
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
Our deferred compensation plan offers certain of our senior employees and directors the opportunity to defer a portion of their compensation in exchange for a future payment amount equal to their deferments plus or minus certain amounts based upon the market-performance of specified measurement funds selected by the participant. These deferred compensation obligations may be considered securities of Celanese. Participants were required to make deferral elections under the plan prior to January 1 of the year such deferrals will be withheld from their compensation. We relied on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act in making this offer to a select group of employees, fewer than 35 of which were non-accredited investors under the rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

34

Table of Contents
Item 6. Reserved
This item is no longer required, as the Company has adopted the amendment to Item 301 of Regulation S-K contained in SEC Release No. 33-10890, which became effective on February 10, 2021.

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
In this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Annual Report"), the term "Celanese" refers to Celanese Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and not its subsidiaries. The terms the "Company," "we," "our" and "us," refer to Celanese and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The term "Celanese U.S." refers to the Company's subsidiary, Celanese US Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and not its subsidiaries.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP").
Investors are cautioned that the forward-looking statements contained in this section and other parts of this Annual Report involve both risk and uncertainty. Several important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these statements. Many of these statements are macroeconomic in nature and are, therefore, beyond the control of management. See "Forward-Looking Statements" below.
Forward-Looking Statements
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") and other parts of this Annual Report contain certain forward-looking statements and information relating to us that are based on the beliefs of our management as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, us. Generally, words such as "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "plan," "may," "can," "could," "might," and "will," and similar expressions, as they relate to us are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect our current views and beliefs with respect to future events at the time that the statements are made, are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our control. Further, certain forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. See "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the beginning of this Annual Report for further discussion.
COVID-19 Update
The COVID-19 pandemic and the various responses thereto, including government-imposed quarantines, stay-at-home restrictions, travel restrictions and other public health and safety measures, continue to evolve. Our employees' health and well-being continue to be of vital importance and we continue to monitor the pandemic in the areas where we have employees and operations. We implemented government recommended protocols and best practices related to social distancing and hygiene. We implemented careful return-to-office efforts in accordance with government regulations and recommended protocols.
After declining during 2020, consumer demand for most applications has increased and rebounded to pre-COVID-19 levels in many regions of the world, which has positively impacted our results of operations. Where we temporarily reduced run rates in prior quarters, our plants are now operating at more normalized levels, although, like many companies, we have experienced a tightening labor market, with increased competitiveness and higher costs for the pool of talent critical for specialty manufacturing and other operations.
Due to potential impacts of COVID-19 resurgences and variants, some uncertainty remains in the pandemic's future duration and scope. The extent to which resurgences or other variants of COVID-19 may adversely impact demand for our products, availability and price of raw materials and the labor supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and results of operations, will depend on numerous factors, including the effectiveness of vaccines, the extent and locations of any resurgences of the virus, health and safety measures and the continuing impact of the pandemic on supply chains (including the availability and cost of transportation and materials). On September 9, 2021, the President directed the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to promulgate rules requiring large employers to mandate employee vaccinations. These rules, referred to as the emergency temporary standard ("ETS") were subject to a number of legal challenges, including applications for emergency injunctions. These actions were consolidated before the United States Supreme Court, which issued a decision in January 2022 that stayed implementation of the ETS. In the United States, the ETS or similar regulations could be re-approved or re-issued in a similar or different form, and around the world we anticipate that national, state and local governments will continue to pursue regulatory or legislative action designed to curb the spread of COVID-19. Such efforts could impose additional costs on our operations. These factors are uncertain, rapidly changing and cannot be predicted.

35

Table of Contents
The extent to which COVID-19 will adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations will depend on numerous evolving factors, which are highly uncertain, rapidly changing and cannot be predicted. For further information regarding the impact COVID-19 could have on our business, financial condition and results of operations, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. For further discussion of our liquidity condition, see Liquidity and Capital Resources in this Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Risk Factors
Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report also contains a description of certain risk factors that you should consider which could significantly affect our financial results. In addition, the following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those results, performance or achievements that may be expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements:
•changes in general economic, business, political and regulatory conditions in the countries or regions in which we operate;
•volatility or changes in the price and availability of raw materials and energy, particularly changes in the demand for, supply of, and market prices of ethylene, methanol, natural gas, wood pulp and fuel oil and the prices for electricity and other energy sources;
•the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic continues to adversely impact the economic environment, market demand and our operations, as well as the pace of any economic recovery;
•the length and depth of product and industry business cycles particularly in the automotive, electrical, textiles, electronics and construction industries;
•the ability to pass increases in raw material prices on to customers or otherwise improve margins through price increases;
•the ability to maintain plant utilization rates and to implement planned capacity additions, expansions and maintenance;
•the ability to reduce or maintain current levels of production costs and to improve productivity by implementing technological improvements to existing plants;
•increased price competition and the introduction of competing products by other companies;
•the ability to identify desirable potential acquisition targets and to complete acquisition or investment transactions, including obtaining regulatory approvals, consistent with our strategy;
•market acceptance of our technology;
•compliance and other costs and potential disruption or interruption of production or operations due to accidents, interruptions in sources of raw materials, transportation or logistics disruptions, cybersecurity incidents, terrorism or political unrest, public health crises (including, but not limited to, the COVID-19 outbreak), or other unforeseen events or delays in construction or operation of facilities, including as a result of geopolitical conditions, the occurrence of acts of war or terrorist incidents or as a result of weather, natural disasters, or other crises;
•the ability to obtain governmental approvals and to construct facilities on terms and schedules acceptable to us;
•changes in applicable tariffs, duties and trade agreements, tax rates or legislation throughout the world including, but not limited to, adjustments, changes in estimates or interpretations or the resolution of tax examinations or audits that may impact recorded or future tax impacts and potential regulatory and legislative tax developments in other jurisdictions;
•changes in the degree of intellectual property and other legal protection afforded to our products or technologies, or the theft of such intellectual property;
•potential liability for remedial actions and increased costs under existing or future environmental, health and safety regulations, including those relating to climate change;
•potential liability resulting from pending or future claims or litigation, including investigations or enforcement actions, or from changes in the laws, regulations or policies of governments or other governmental activities, in the countries in which we operate;

36

Table of Contents
•changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates; and
•various other factors, both referenced and not referenced in this Annual Report.
Many of these factors are macroeconomic in nature and are, therefore, beyond our control. COVID-19 and responses to the pandemic by governments and businesses, have significantly increased financial and economic volatility and uncertainty, exacerbating the risks and potential impact of these factors. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, affect us in ways or to an extent that we currently do not expect or consider to be significant, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results, performance or achievements may vary materially from those described in this Annual Report as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, planned or projected. We neither intend nor assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.
Results of Operations
Financial Highlights

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- - ---- ----- ------ -------
 Year EndedDecember 31,
 2021 2020 Change
 (In $ millions, except percentages)
Statement of Operations Data
Net sales 8,537 5,655 2,882
Gross profit 2,682 1,293 1,389
Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses (633) (482) (151)

Operating profit (loss) 1,946 664 1,282
Equity in net earnings (loss) of affiliates 146 134 12
Non-operating pension and other postretirement employee benefit (expense) income 106 17 89
Interest expense (91) (109) 18

Dividend income - equity investments 147 126 21
Gain (loss) on sale of investments in affiliates — 1,408 (1,408)
Earnings (loss) from continuing operations before tax 2,248 2,251 (3)
Earnings (loss) from continuing operations 1,918 2,004 (86)
Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations (22) (12) (10)
Net earnings (loss) 1,896 1,992 (96)
Net earnings (loss) attributable to Celanese Corporation 1,890 1,985 (95)
Other Data
Depreciation and amortization 371 350 21
SG&A expenses as a percentage of Net sales 7.4 % 8.5 %
Operating margin(1) 22.8 % 11.7 %

_____________________________
(1)Defined as Operating profit (loss) divided by Net sales.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---- -----
 As of December 31,
 2021 2020
 (In $ millions)
Balance Sheet Data
Cash and cash equivalents 536 955

Short-term borrowings and current installments of long-term debt - third party and affiliates 791 496
Long-term debt, net of unamortized deferred financing costs 3,176 3,227
Total debt 3,967 3,723

37

Table of Contents
Factors Affecting Business Segment Net Sales
The percentage increase (decrease) in Net sales attributable to each of the factors indicated for each of our business segments is as follows:
Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020

-------------------- ---------------- ----- --- -------- ----- ----- - ---
 Volume Price Currency Other Total
 (In percentages)
Engineered Materials 15 12 4 — 31
Acetate Tow — (1) — — (1)
Acetyl Chain 9 62 2 — 73
Total Company 10 39 2 — 51

Consolidated Results
Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020
Net sales increased $2.9 billion, or 51%, for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 primarily due to:
•higher pricing in most of our segments, primarily driven by our Acetyl Chain segment, due to increased customer demand and supply constraints across all regions;
•higher volume in our Engineered Materials and Acetyl Chain segments, primarily due to increased demand across most regions due to recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic; and
•a favorable currency impact resulting from a stronger Euro relative to the U.S. dollar.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $151 million, or 31%, for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020, primarily due to:
•an increase in functional spending and incentive compensation costs of $109 million in Other Activities.
Operating profit increased $1.3 billion, or 193%, for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 primarily due to:
•higher Net sales across most of our segments;
partially offset by:
•higher raw material and energy costs across all of our segments; and
•higher spending across most of our segments, primarily as a result of increased plant operating and maintenance expenses.
Non-operating pension and other postretirement employee benefit income increased $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 due to a decrease in recognized actuarial loss of $55 million as a result of lower than expected asset returns, partially offset by an increase in the weighted average discount rate used to determine benefit obligations from 2.05% to 2.47%, and lower interest costs of $31 million. See Note 12 - Benefit Obligations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Gain (loss) on sale of investments in affiliates decreased $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021 due to the sale of our 45% Polyplastics joint venture equity interest during the year ended December 31, 2020, which did not recur in the current year. See Note 7 - Investments in Affiliates in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Our effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2021 was 15% compared to 11% for the year ended 2020. The higher effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 was primarily due

38

Table of Contents
to non-recurring tax benefits from certain divestitures and reorganization transactions which did not recur in the current year. See Note 16 - Income Taxes in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.

Discussion of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 and for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, can be found in Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Reports for the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively.

39

Table of Contents
Business Segments
Engineered Materials

------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------- - ---- ----- ------ ------- ------- -
 Year EndedDecember 31, %
 2021 2020 Change Change
 (In $ millions, except percentages)
Net sales 2,718 2,081 637 30.6 %
Net Sales Variance
Volume 15 %
Price 12 %
Currency 4 %

Other (charges) gains, net 6 (36) 42 116.7 %
Operating profit (loss) 411 235 176 74.9 %
Operating margin 15.1 % 11.3 %
Equity in net earnings (loss) of affiliates 126 115 11 9.6 %
Gain (loss) on sale of investments in affiliates — 1,408 (1,408) (100.0) %
Depreciation and amortization 144 134 10 7.5 %

Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020
Net sales increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 primarily due to:
•higher volume for most of our products driven by increased demand across all regions due to recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic;
•higher pricing for most of our products, primarily due to higher raw material costs and product mix; and
•a favorable currency impact resulting from a stronger Euro relative to the U.S. dollar.
Operating profit increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 primarily due to:
•higher Net sales;
•a favorable impact of $42 million to Other (charges) gains, net. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded a $26 million long-lived asset impairment loss related to certain fixed assets used in compounding operations at our facilities in Kaiserslautern, Germany; Wehr, Germany and Ferrara Marconi, Italy, which did not recur in the current year, see Note 15 - Other (Charges) Gains, Net in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information; and
•lower plant turnaround costs of $41 million, primarily related to our Bishop and Frankfurt plants in 2020;
partially offset by:
•higher raw material costs for most of our products and increased sourcing costs as a result of higher logistical costs and global shipping constraints;
•higher energy costs of $110 million, primarily for steam; and
•higher spending of $63 million, primarily as a result of plant operating and administrative expenses.
Gain (loss) on sale of investments in affiliates decreased $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021 due to the sale of our 45% Polyplastics joint venture equity interest during the year ended December 31, 2020, which did not recur in the current year. See Note 7 - Investments in Affiliates in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.

40

Table of Contents
Acetate Tow

------------------------------------ ----------------------------------- - ---- ---- ------ ------ ------ -
 Year EndedDecember 31, %
 2021 2020 Change Change
 (In $ millions, except percentages)
Net sales 514 519 (5) (1.0) %
Net Sales Variance
Volume — %
Price (1) %
Currency — %

Operating profit (loss) 56 118 (62) (52.5) %
Operating margin 10.9 % 22.7 %

Dividend income - equity investments 146 126 20 15.9 %

Depreciation and amortization 39 36 3 8.3 %

Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020
Net sales were consistent for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020.
Operating profit decreased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 primarily due to:
•higher energy costs of $29 million, primarily related to higher natural gas pricing; and
•higher raw material costs of $18 million, primarily for acetic acid.
Dividend income from equity investments increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 primarily due to:
•higher earnings from our Nantong, Zhuhai and Kunming Cellulose Fibers joint ventures related to higher volumes and a favorable currency impact.

41

Table of Contents
Acetyl Chain

----------------------------- ----------------------------------- - ---- ----- ------ ------ ----- -
 Year EndedDecember 31, %
 2021 2020 Change Change
 (In $ millions, except percentages)
Net sales 5,430 3,147 2,283 72.5 %
Net Sales Variance
Volume 9 %
Price 62 %
Currency 2 %

Operating profit (loss) 1,819 563 1,256 223.1 %
Operating margin 33.5 % 17.9 %

Depreciation and amortization 171 163 8 4.9 %

Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020
Net sales increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 primarily due to:
•higher pricing for all of our products, primarily due to increased customer demand and supply constraints across all regions;
•higher volume for most of our products driven by increased demand across most regions due to recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic; and
•a favorable currency impact resulting from a stronger Euro relative to the U.S. dollar.
Operating profit increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 primarily due to:
•higher Net sales;
partially offset by:
•higher raw material costs, primarily for ethylene, methanol and carbon monoxide, as well as higher sourcing and distribution costs due to stronger demand and tighter market conditions;
•higher spending of $77 million, primarily as a result of increased plant operating and maintenance expenses, fixed overhead, freeze-related repairs and restart costs resulting from Winter Storm Uri; and
•higher energy costs of $67 million, primarily due to supply disruptions caused by Winter Storm Uri, price increases for, and increased consumption of, natural gas due to increased volumes.

42

Table of Contents
Other Activities

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ---- ----- ------ ------ ------ -
 Year EndedDecember 31, %
 2021 2020 Change Change
 (In $ millions, except percentages)

Operating profit (loss) (340) (252) (88) (34.9) %

Non-operating pension and other postretirement employee benefit (expense) income 106 16 90 562.5 %

Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020
Operating loss increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 primarily due to:
•higher functional spending and incentive compensation costs of $109 million;
partially offset by:
•a gain on the sale of our Spondon site of $14 million.
Non-operating pension and other postretirement employee benefit income increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 primarily due to:
•a decrease in recognized actuarial loss of $55 million as a result of lower than expected asset returns, partially offset by an increase in the weighted average discount rate used to determine benefit obligations from 2.05% to 2.47%, and lower interest costs of $31 million. See Note 12 - Benefit Obligations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.

43

Table of Contents
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash generated from operations, available cash and cash equivalents, dividends from our portfolio of strategic investments and available borrowings under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2021, we have $1.1 billion available for borrowing under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, if required, in meeting our working capital needs and other contractual obligations. In addition, we held cash and cash equivalents of $536 million as of December 31, 2021. We are actively managing our business to maintain cash flow, and we believe that liquidity from the above-referenced sources will be sufficient to meet our operational and capital investment needs and financial obligations for the foreseeable future.
On December 1, 2021, we acquired the Santoprene™ thermoplastic vulcanizates ("TPV") elastomers business of Exxon Mobil Corporation ("Santoprene") for a purchase price of $1.15 billion in an all-cash transaction. See Note 4 - Acquisitions, Dispositions and Plant Closures in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
While our contractual obligations, commitments and debt service requirements over the next several years are significant, we continue to believe we will have available resources to meet our liquidity requirements, including debt service, for the next twelve months. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our debt service and other obligations, we may be required to use other means available to us such as increasing our borrowings, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, seeking additional capital or seeking to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. There can be no assurance, however, that we will continue to generate cash flows at or above current levels.
Capital expenditures were $467 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. We continue to prioritize those projects expected to drive productivity in the near-term and expect capital expenditures to be approximately $600 million in 2022, primarily due to the following investments in growth opportunities and productivity improvements. In Engineered Materials, we announced plans to expand the compounding capacity at our facilities in China, ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene ("UHMW-PE") production capacity in Bishop, Texas and Oberhausen, Germany to support the growing global electric vehicle battery market and an expansion of our Florence, Kentucky Technology and Innovation center through the addition of a pharmaceutical drug delivery lab to support programs and products for long-acting, controlled release drug delivery. In the Acetyl Chain, we announced plans to expand the capacity of our vinyl acetate ethylene ("VAE") and emulsions plants in Nanjing, China and Frankfurt, Germany, expand the capacity of our vinyl acetate monomer ("VAM") plant in Bay City, Texas, expand the sustainable production of methanol at our Fairway joint venture in Clear Lake, Texas using captured carbon dioxide as feedstock. Lastly, our previously announced acetic acid expansion in Clear Lake, Texas is still in construction and on schedule. We continue to see the incremental capacity from investments we made in recent years strengthen our manufacturing network reliability to best serve our customers.
We remain fully committed to our cash dividend. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed $1.0 billion of share repurchases.
On a stand-alone basis, Celanese and its immediate 100% owned subsidiary, Celanese U.S., have no independent external operations of their own. Accordingly, they generally depend on the cash flow of their subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends and make other distributions to Celanese and Celanese U.S. in order to meet their obligations, including their obligations under senior credit facilities and senior notes, and to pay dividends on our Common Stock.
We are subject to capital controls and exchange restrictions imposed by the local governments in certain jurisdictions where we operate, such as China, India and Indonesia. Capital controls impose limitations on our ability to exchange currencies, repatriate earnings or capital, lend via intercompany loans or create cross-border cash pooling arrangements. Our largest exposure to a country with capital controls is in China. Pursuant to applicable regulations, foreign-invested enterprises in China may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, the Chinese government imposes certain currency exchange controls on cash transfers out of China, puts certain limitations on duration, purpose and amount of intercompany loans, and restricts cross-border cash pooling. While it is possible that future tightening of these restrictions or application of new similar restrictions could impact us, these limitations do not currently restrict our operations.
We remain in compliance with the financial covenants under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and expect to remain in compliance based on our current expectation of future results of operations. If our actual future results of operations differ materially from these expectations, or if we otherwise experience increased indebtedness or substantially lower EBITDA, we may be required to seek an amendment or waiver of such covenants which may increase our borrowing costs under those debt instruments.

44

Table of Contents
Cash Flows
Cash and cash equivalents decreased $419 million to $536 million as of December 31, 2021 compared to December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2021, $422 million of the $536 million of cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Under the TCJA, we have incurred a prior year charge associated with the deemed repatriation of previously unremitted foreign earnings, including foreign held cash. These funds are largely accessible without additional material tax consequences, if needed in the U.S., to fund operations. See Note 16 - Income Taxes in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020
•Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities increased $414 million to $1.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $1.3 billion for the same period in 2020, primarily due to:
•the gain on the sale of our 45% Polyplastics joint venture equity interest during the year ended December 31, 2020, which did not recur in the current year, net of a decrease in Net earnings;
partially offset by:
•unfavorable trade working capital of $669 million, primarily due to an increase in trade receivables and inventory, partially offset by an increase in trade payables. Trade receivables increased primarily as a result of the increase in Net sales and inventory increased primarily as a result of higher costs for raw materials during the year ended December 31, 2021. Payables increased as a result of higher costs for raw materials and the timing of settlement of trade payables;
•an increase in VAT taxes receivable, primarily due to timing of refunds and COVID-19 relief measures during the year ended December 31, 2020, which did not recur in the current year; and
•a payment for the European Commission settlement of $100 million, see Note 20 - Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
•Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities increased $1.7 billion to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $592 million for the same period in 2020, primarily due to:
•a net cash inflow of $1.6 billion related to the sale of our 45% Polyplastics joint venture equity interest during the year ended December 31, 2020, which did not recur in the current year. See Note 7 - Investments in Affiliates in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information;
•a net cash outflow of $1.0 billion related to the acquisition of the Santoprene™ thermoplastic vulcanizates elastomers business of Exxon Mobil Corporation in December 2021 (see Note 4 - Acquisitions, Dispositions and Plant Closures in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information), partially offset by the acquisition of Nouryon's redispersible polymer powders business offered under the Elotex® brand in April 2020; and
•an increase of $103 million in capital expenditures related to growth opportunities in our Acetyl Chain and Engineered Materials segments;
partially offset by:
•an increase in net proceeds of $1.0 billion related to the purchase and sale of marketable securities during the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2021.

45

Table of Contents
•Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities decreased $429 million to $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $1.5 billion for the same period in 2020, primarily due to:
•a decrease in net repayments of short-term debt of $642 million, primarily as a result of repayments of borrowings under our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization facility during the year ended December 31, 2020; and
•an increase in net proceeds from long-term debt of $234 million, primarily due to the issuance of $400 million in principal amount of 1.400% senior unsecured notes due August 5, 2026 (the "1.400% Notes") and the issuance of €500 million in principal amount of 0.625% senior unsecured notes due September 10, 2028 (the "0.625% Notes"), partially offset by the maturity and repayment in full of the 5.875% senior unsecured notes (the "5.875% Notes") and tender offer for 1.125% senior unsecured notes due September 26, 2023 (the "1.125% Notes") during the year ended December 31, 2021;
partially offset by:
•an increase in share repurchases of our Common Stock of $350 million during the year ended December 31, 2021; and
•a settlement of a forward-starting interest rate swap on August 2, 2021 resulting in a payment to the counterparty of $72 million.
In addition, exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of $15 million on cash and cash equivalents and a favorable impact of $28 million on cash and cash equivalents for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Debt and Other Obligations
•Senior Credit Facilities
In January 2019, Celanese, Celanese U.S. and certain subsidiary borrowers entered into a new senior credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement") consisting of a $1.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility (with a letter of credit sublimit), maturing in 2024. The Credit Agreement is guaranteed by Celanese, Celanese U.S. and substantially all of its domestic subsidiaries ("the Subsidiary Guarantors"). We borrowed $850 million and repaid $650 million under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility during the year ended December 31, 2021.
•Senior Notes
We have outstanding senior unsecured notes, issued in public offerings registered under the Securities Act of 1933 ("Securities Act"), as amended, as follows (collectively, the "Senior Notes"):

------------ -------------- ------------- ---------------- ------------------ ------------------ -----------------
Senior Notes Issue Date Principal Interest Rate Interest Pay Dates Maturity Date
 (In millions) (In percentages)

4.625% Notes November 2012 $500 4.625 March 15 September 15 November 15, 2022
1.125% Notes September 2016 €450 1.125 September 26 September 26, 2023
3.500% Notes May 2019 $500 3.500 May 8 November 8 May 8, 2024
1.250% Notes December 2017 €300 1.250 February 11 February 11, 2025
1.400% Notes August 2021 $400 1.400 February 5 August 5 August 5, 2026
2.125% Notes November 2018 €500 2.125 March 1 March 1, 2027
0.625% Notes September 2021 €500 0.625 September 10 September 10, 2028

The Senior Notes were issued by Celanese U.S. and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Celanese and the Subsidiary Guarantors. Celanese U.S. may redeem some or all of each of the Senior Notes, prior to their respective maturity dates, at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount, plus a "make-whole" premium as specified in the applicable indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date.

46

Table of Contents
On August 5, 2021, Celanese U.S. completed an offering of $400 million in principal amount of 1.400% Notes in a public offering registered under the Securities Act. Net proceeds from the sale of the 1.400% Notes were used to repay $396 million of outstanding borrowings under the senior unsecured revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes.
On September 10, 2021, Celanese U.S. completed an offering of €500 million in principal amount of 0.625% Notes due September 10, 2028 in a public offering registered under the Securities Act.
On September 13, 2021, Celanese U.S. completed a cash tender offer for €300 million in principal amount of 1.125% Notes at a purchase price of €1,027.35 per €1,000 of principal amount plus accrued interest, for a total principal and premium payment of $363 million plus accrued interest of $4 million. A portion of the proceeds from the issuance of the 0.625% Notes were used to fund the tender offer for €300 million of the 1.125% Notes. As a result of the tender offer, the carrying value of the 1.125% Notes was reduced by $353 million.
•Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility
On June 18, 2021, we entered into an amendment to the amended and restated receivables purchase agreement under our U.S. accounts receivable purchasing facility among certain of our subsidiaries, our wholly-owned, "bankruptcy remote" special purpose subsidiary ("SPE") and certain global financial institutions ("Purchasers"). We de-recognized $1.1 billion and $595 million of accounts receivable under this agreement for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and collected $1.1 billion and $476 million of accounts receivable sold under this agreement during the same periods. Unsold U.S. accounts receivable of $115 million were pledged by the SPE as collateral to the Purchasers as of December 31, 2021.
•Factoring and Discounting Agreements
We have factoring agreements in Europe and Singapore with financial institutions. We de-recognized $230 million and $233 million of accounts receivable under these factoring agreements for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and collected $185 million and $237 million of accounts receivable sold under these factoring agreements during the same periods.
In March 2021, we entered into a letter of credit discounting agreement in Singapore with a financial institution. We de-recognized $70 million of accounts receivable under this agreement for the year ended December 31, 2021.
Our material financing arrangements contain customary covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios, events of default and change of control provisions. Failure to comply with these covenants, or the occurrence of any other event of default, could result in acceleration of the borrowings and other financial obligations. We are in compliance with all of the covenants related to our debt agreements as of December 31, 2021.
See Note 11 - Debt in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Guarantor Financial Information
The Senior Notes were issued by Celanese U.S. ("Issuer") and are guaranteed by Celanese Corporation ("Parent Guarantor") and the Subsidiary Guarantors (collectively the "Obligor Group"). See Note 11 - Debt in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information. The Issuer and Subsidiary Guarantors are 100% owned subsidiaries of the Parent Guarantor. The Parent Guarantor and Subsidiary Guarantors represent substantially all of the Company's U.S. assets and business operations. The Subsidiary Guarantors are listed in Exhibit 22.1 to this Annual Report.
The Parent Guarantor and the Subsidiary Guarantors have guaranteed the Senior Notes on a full and unconditional, joint and several, senior unsecured basis. The guarantees are subject to certain customary release provisions, including that a Subsidiary Guarantor will be released from its respective guarantee in specified circumstances, including (i) the sale or transfer of all of its assets or capital stock; (ii) its merger or consolidation with, or transfer of all or substantially all of its assets to, another person; or (iii) its ceasing to be a majority-owned subsidiary of the Issuer in connection with any sale of its capital stock or other transaction. Additionally, a Subsidiary Guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the Senior Notes at such time that it ceases to guarantee the Issuer's obligations under the Credit Agreement (subject to the satisfaction of customary document delivery requirements). The obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under their guarantees are limited as necessary to prevent such guarantees from constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer under applicable law.
The Parent Guarantor and the Issuer are holding companies that conduct substantially all of their operations through their subsidiaries, which own substantially all of our consolidated assets. The Parent Guarantor has no material assets other than the stock of its immediate 100% owned subsidiary, the Issuer. The principal source of cash to pay the Parent Guarantor's and the

47

Table of Contents
Issuer's obligations, including obligations under the Senior Notes and the guarantee of the Issuer's obligations under the Credit Agreement, is the cash that our subsidiaries generate from their operations. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors and our non-guarantor subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, applicable country or state laws, regulatory limitations and terms of other debt instruments may limit our subsidiaries' ability to distribute cash to the Issuer and the Parent Guarantor. While the Credit Agreement and the Indentures generally limit the ability of our subsidiaries to restrict payment of dividends or other distributions to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions, which may have the effect of significantly limiting the applicability of those restrictions.
For cash management purposes, the Company transfers cash between the Parent Guarantor, Issuer, Subsidiary Guarantors and non-guarantors through intercompany financing arrangements, contributions or declaration of dividends between the respective parent and its subsidiaries. While the non-guarantor subsidiaries do not guarantee the Issuer's obligations under our outstanding debt, the transfer of cash under these activities facilitates the ability of the recipient to make specified third-party payments for principal and interest on the Senior Notes, Credit Agreement, the Company's other outstanding debt, Common Stock dividends and Common Stock repurchases.
The summarized financial information of the Obligor Group is presented below on a combined basis after the elimination of: (i) intercompany transactions among such entities and (ii) equity in earnings from and investments in the non-guarantor subsidiaries. Transactions with, and amounts due to or from, non-guarantor subsidiaries and affiliates are separately disclosed.

----------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
 Year Ended December 31,2021
 (In $ millions)

Net sales to third parties 1,745
Net sales to non-guarantor subsidiaries 1,015
Total net sales 2,760
Gross profit 506
Earnings (loss) from continuing operations 495
Net earnings (loss) 476
Net earnings (loss) attributable to the Obligor Group 476

-------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---- -----
 As of December 31,
 2021 2020
 (In $ millions)

Receivables from non-guarantor subsidiaries 624 318
Other current assets 1,236 1,597
Total current assets 1,860 1,915
Goodwill 578 399
Other noncurrent assets 3,963 3,519
Total noncurrent assets 4,541 3,918
Current liabilities due to non-guarantor subsidiaries 2,493 1,206
Current liabilities due to affiliates 64 58
Other current liabilities 1,347 958
Total current liabilities 3,904 2,222
Noncurrent liabilities due to non-guarantor subsidiaries 2,348 1,593
Other noncurrent liabilities 3,610 3,648
Total noncurrent liabilities 5,958 5,241

Share Capital
On February 9, 2022, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.68 per share on our Common Stock amounting to approximately $73 million. The cash dividend will be paid on March 8, 2022 to holders of record as of February 22, 2022.
Our Board of Directors has authorized the aggregate repurchase of $6.9 billion of our Common Stock since February 2008. These authorizations give management discretion in determining the timing and conditions under which shares may be

48

Table of Contents
repurchased. This repurchase program does not have an expiration date. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we repurchased shares of our Common Stock at an aggregate cost of $1.0 billion. As of December 31, 2021, we had $1.1 billion remaining under authorizations by our Board of Directors.
See Note 14 - Stockholders' Equity in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Contractual Obligations, Guarantees and Commitments
We calculated $282 million of all future interest payments on debt and other obligations using the rate in effect on December 31, 2021 and $448 million of all future pension and other postretirement funding obligations.
We have not entered into any material off-balance sheet arrangements.
In the accompanying consolidated financial statements, see Note 10 - Current Other Liabilities for current asset retirement obligations, Note 11 - Debt for a description of the guarantees under our Senior Notes and Credit Agreement, Note 12 - Benefit Obligations for a description of the pension and other postretirement funding obligations, Note 13 - Environmental for a description of environmental obligations, Note 16 - Income Taxes for a description of uncertain tax positions, Note 17 - Leases for lease obligations and Note 20 - Commitments and Contingencies for a discussion of commitments and contingencies related to legal and regulatory proceedings.
Market Risks
See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk for further information.
Business Environment
In the latter part of 2021, we experienced significant cost inflation, inflationary pressure and supply disruptions related to the sourcing of raw materials, energy, logistics and labor. We continue to closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 variants on demand conditions and the supply chain. Average prices of energy feedstocks, particularly natural gas, which are a significant input and source of energy for our manufacturing operations, have continued to increase in the Western Hemisphere and particularly in Europe. We also experienced, and continue to experience, cost pressure on raw material inputs. We undertook pricing actions throughout the year intended to offset these inflationary headwinds. Moderation of Chinese acetyls pricing is expected to continue trending to more normalized levels into the middle of 2022. While we took proactive actions to accelerate turnaround and maintenance activity to earlier in the year, which supported our ability to increase volume and meet the demand by our customers, the sourcing constraints we experienced led to lost production. We expect that sourcing cost and inflationary pressures will continue to be significant across the business through 2022.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Our consolidated financial statements are based on the selection and application of significant accounting policies. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of net sales, expenses and allocated charges during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. However, we are not currently aware of any reasonably likely events or circumstances that would result in materially different results.
We believe the following accounting policies and estimates are critical to understanding the financial reporting risks present in the current economic environment. These matters, and the judgments and uncertainties affecting them, are also essential to understanding our reported and future operating results. See Note 2 - Summary of Accounting Policies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
•Recoverability of Long-Lived Assets
Recoverability of Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Assets
We assess the recoverability of the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets annually during the third quarter of our fiscal year using June 30 balances or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be fully recoverable.

49

Table of Contents
When assessing the recoverability of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may first assess qualitative factors in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or other indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. The qualitative evaluation is an assessment of multiple factors, including the current operating environment, financial performance and market considerations. We may elect to bypass the qualitative assessment for some or all of our reporting units or other indefinite-lived intangible assets and proceed directly to a quantitative analysis depending on the facts and circumstances.
In performing a quantitative analysis of goodwill, recoverability of goodwill for each reporting unit is measured using a discounted cash flow model incorporating discount rates commensurate with the risks involved. The key assumptions used in the discounted cash flow valuation model include discount rates, growth rates, tax rates, cash flow projections and terminal value rates. Discount rates, growth rates and cash flow projections are the most sensitive and susceptible to change as they require significant management judgment.
Management tests other indefinite-lived intangible assets quantitatively utilizing the relief from royalty method under the income approach to determine the estimated fair value for each indefinite-lived intangible asset. Key assumptions used in this model include discount rates, royalty rates, growth rates, tax rates, sales projections and terminal value rates. Discount rates, royalty rates, growth rates, growth rates and sales projections are the assumptions most sensitive and susceptible to change as they require significant management judgment.
Specific assumptions discussed above are updated at the date of each test to consider current industry and company-specific risk factors from the perspective of a market participant. The current business environment is subject to evolving market conditions and requires significant management judgment to interpret the potential impact to our assumptions. To the extent that changes in the current business environment result in adjusted management projections, impairment losses may occur in future periods.
See Note 9 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
•Benefit Obligations
Various assumptions are used in the calculation of the actuarial valuation of the employee benefit plans. These assumptions include the discount rate, compensation levels, expected long-term rates of return on plan assets and trends in health care costs. In addition, actuarial consultants use factors such as withdrawal and mortality rates to estimate the projected benefit obligation. The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the amount of net periodic benefit cost recorded in future periods.
Pension assumptions are reviewed annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and whenever a plan is required to be remeasured. Assumptions are reviewed on a plan and country-specific basis by third-party actuaries and senior management. Such assumptions are adjusted as appropriate to reflect changes in market rates and outlook.
See Note 12 - Benefit Obligations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
•Income Taxes
We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance as needed. In forming our judgment regarding the recoverability of deferred tax assets related to deductible temporary differences and tax attribute carryforwards, we give weight to positive and negative evidence based on the extent to which the forms of evidence can be objectively verified.
The recoverability of deferred tax assets and the recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions are subject to various assumptions and management judgment. If actual results differ from the estimates made by management in establishing or maintaining valuation allowances against deferred tax assets, the resulting change in the valuation allowance would generally impact earnings or Other comprehensive income depending on the nature of the respective deferred tax asset. In addition, the positions taken with regard to tax contingencies may be subject to audit and review by tax authorities, which may result in future taxes, interest and penalties.
See Note 16 - Income Taxes in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.

50

Table of Contents
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 3 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 4]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[See Note 20]:
(20) (16) (10) Income before income taxes 4 3 3 Income tax expense (16) (13) (7) Net income -- -- -- Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest $ (16) $ (13) $ (7) Net income attributable to Aptiv Total reclassifications for the year $ 49 $ (34) $ (13) (1)These accumulated other comprehensive loss components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost (see Note 12. Pension Benefits for additional details). 17. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES Cash Flow Hedges Aptiv is exposed to market risk, such as fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and changes in interest rates, which may result in cash flow risks. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, Aptiv aggregates the exposures on a consolidated basis to take advantage of natural offsets. For exposures that are not offset within its operations, Aptiv enters into various derivative transactions pursuant to its risk management policies, which prohibit holding or issuing derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes, and designation of derivative instruments is performed on a transaction basis to support hedge accounting. The changes in fair value of these hedging instruments are offset in part or in whole by corresponding changes in the fair value or cash flows of the underlying exposures being hedged. Aptiv assesses the initial and ongoing effectiveness of its hedging relationships in accordance with its documented policy. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had the following outstanding notional amounts related to commodity and foreign currency forward and option contracts designated as cash flow hedges that were entered into to hedge forecasted exposures: --------- --------------- --------------- ------ -------------------------------------------- - --- Commodity Quantity Hedged Unit of Measure Notional Amount (Approximate USD Equivalent) (in thousands) (in millions) Copper 81,578 pounds $ 355 103 --------------------- --------------- ------...

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[See Note 11]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, no shares were issued or outstanding. Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. Share Repurchases In April 2021, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $50.0 billion of its Class C stock. In July 2021, the Alphabet board approved an amendment to the April 2021 authorization, permitting the company to repurchase both Class A and Class C shares in a manner deemed in the best interest of the company and its stockholders, taking into account the economic cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2021, $17.4 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases under the amended authorization. In accordance with the authorizations of the Board of Directors of Alphabet, during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, we repurchased and subsequently retired 21.5 million and 20.3 million aggregate shares for $31.1 billion and $50.3 billion, respectively. Of the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired during 2021, 1.2 million shares were Class A stock for $3.4 billion. Stock Split E...

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[See Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[See Note 7]:
(7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27 net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity under GAAP and, accordingly, should not be considered as alternatives to net income or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of operating performance or liquidity. The table below pro...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[see Note 15]:
Note 15. Financial Instruments and Risk Management 63

[See Note 7]:
(7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest should not be considered as alternatives to net income or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of operating performance or liquidity. The table below pro...

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[See Note 4]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[see Note 20]:
(20) (16) (10) Income before income taxes 4 3 3 Income tax expense (16) (13) (7) Net income -- -- -- Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest $ (16) $ (13) $ (7) Net income attributable to Aptiv Total reclassifications for the year $ 49 $ (34) $ (13) (1)These accumulated other comprehensive loss components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost (see Note 12. Pension Benefits for additional details). 17. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES Cash Flow Hedges Aptiv is exposed to market risk, such as fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and changes in interest rates, which may result in cash flow risks. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, Aptiv aggregates the exposures on a consolidated basis to take advantage of natural offsets. For exposures that are not offset within its operations, Aptiv enters into various derivative transactions pursuant to its risk management policies, which prohibit holding or issuing derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes, and designation of derivative instruments is performed on a transaction basis to support hedge accounting. The changes in fair value of its hedging relationships in accordance with its documented policy. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had the following outstanding notional amounts related to commodity and foreign currency forward and option contracts designated as cash flow hedges that were entered into to hedge forecasted exposures: --------- --------------- --------------- ------ -------------------------------------------- - --- Commodity Quantity Hedged Unit of Measure Notional Amount (Approximate USD Equivalent) (in thousands) (in millions) Copper 81,578 pounds $ 355 103 --------------------- --------------- ------...

[See Note 7]:
(7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27 net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity under GAAP and, accordingly, should not be considered as alternatives to net income or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of operating performance or liquidity. The table below pro...

[see Note 4]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[See Note 11]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the is entitled to 10 votes per share. 2021, the Alphabet board approved an amendment to the April 2021 authorization, permitting the company to repurchase both Class A and Class C shares in a manner deemed in the best interest of the company $17.4 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases under the amended authorization. In accordance with the authorizations of the Board of Directors Of the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired during 2021, 1.2 million shares were Class A stock for $3.4 billion. Stock Split E...

[See Note 11]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Preferred Stock B Common Stock and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 In July 2021, the Alphabet board approved an amendment to the April 2021 authorization, permitting the company to repurchase both Class A and Class C shares in a manner deemed in the best interest of 31, 2021, and subsequently retired during 2021, 1.2 million shares were Class A stock for $3.4 billion. Stock Split E...

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97

[see Note 10]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer 66 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web a...

[See Note 9]:
Note 9 -- Derivative Instruments During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company entered into two foreign currency swap agreements. The objective of both agreements is to manage the risk of changes in cash flows resulting from foreign currency gains/losses realized upon remeasurement of U.S. dollar denominated SCL senior notes by swapping a specified amount of Hong Kong dollars for U.S. dollars at the contractual spot rate. The terms in one of the contracts did not effectively match the terms of the related SCL senior notes; thus, it was not designated as hedging (the "Non-Hedging Swap"). The remaining contract was designated as a hedge of the cash flows related to a portion of the SCL senior notes (the "Hedging Swap," and together with the Non-Hedging Swap, the "FX Swaps"). The Non-Hedging Swap and the Hedging Swap have a total notional value of $500 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, and expire in August 2023 and August 2025, respectively. The total fair value of the FX Swaps is recorded as an asset in other assets, net. The fair value of the FX Swaps was estimated using Level 2 inputs from recently reported market transactions of foreign currency exchange rates. For the Hedging Swap, the changes in fair value of the derivative were recognized as other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, the foreign currency gains/losses incurred from the remeasurement of the portion of the SCL senior notes being hedged were also recognized in other comprehensive income. For the Non-Hedging Swap the changes in fair value of the derivative were recorded in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In August 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements (the "IR Swaps"), which qualified and were designated as fair value hedges, swapping fixed-rate for variable-rate interest to hedge changes in the fair value of the 2023, 2025 and 2028 SCL Senior Notes. These IR Swaps had a total not...

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[See Note 16]:
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Unconditional Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: ------------- -------------------- ----- (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter -- Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded in our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $202 million, $176 million and $154 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer's or director's lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have direct...

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. The fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management's best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date. Fair values associated with the net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill were pending finalization as of the reporting date. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------------ --- - (dollars in millions) Amount Weighted Average Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. (2) Non-deductible for tax-purposes. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Frame.io acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. 70 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[PART II
Item 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37

[Exhibit 22.1 to ]:
[Reference to Exhibit 22.1]

[") membership or otherwise may negatively impact our overall financial results due to reduced economic growth, trade disruptions, decreased end-use customer demand or other factors.
We are subject to risks associated with the increased volatility in the prices and availability of key raw materials and energy, which could have a significant adverse effect on the margins of our products and our financial results.
We purchase significant amounts of ethylene, methanol, carbon monoxide and natural gas from third parties primarily for use in our production of basic chemicals in our intermediate chemistry business, principally acetic acid, VAM and formaldehyde. We use a portion of our output of these chemicals, in turn, as inputs in the production of downstream products in all of our business segments. We also purchase some of these raw materials for use in our emulsion polymers and EVA polymer businesses, primarily for vinyl acetate ethylene emulsions and ethylene vinyl acetate production, as well as significant amounts of wood pulp for use in our production of acetate tow. We also procure polymers, rubber and polypropylene for use in production of engineered materials, and other raw materials as additives to our products including fiberglass, flame retardant materials and other compounding components.
The prices and availability of many of these items is dependent on the available supply and may increase significantly as a result of uncertainties associated with inflationary pressures, transportation or logistics disruptions, weather, natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics, the effects of climate change or political instability, plant or production disruptions, strikes or other labor unrest, breakdown or degradation of transportation infrastructure used in the delivery of raw materials and energy commodities, war, terrorist activities, civil unrest, or changes in laws or regulations in any of the countries in which we have significant

18

Table of Contents
suppliers. In particular, to the extent of our vertical integration in the production of chemicals, shortages in the availability of raw material chemicals, such as natural gas, ethylene and methanol, or the loss of our dedicated supplies of carbon monoxide, may have an increased adverse impact on us as it can cause a shortage in intermediate and finished products. Such shortages would adversely impact our ability to produce certain products and increase our costs resulting in reduced margins and adverse impacts to our financial results. Like many companies in 2021, we experienced supply disruptions and increased costs of inputs, which we believe led to increased costs and some lost sales as a result of reduced ability to produce products to meet aggregate demand. We attempt to pass through costs to customers, but even where we are successful increased prices could lead to reduced customer demand for our products or could result in competitive disadvantages. We currently expect these issues to continue into 2022.
We are exposed to volatility in the prices of our raw materials and energy. Although we have long-term supply agreements, multi-year purchasing and sales agreements and forward purchase contracts providing for the supply of ethylene, methanol, carbon monoxide, wood pulp, natural gas and electricity, the contractual prices for these raw materials and energy can vary with economic conditions and may be highly volatile. In addition to the factors noted above that may impact supply or price, factors that have caused volatility in our raw material prices in the past and which may do so in the future include:
•Shortages of raw materials due to increasing demand, e.g., from growing uses or new uses;
•Capacity constraints, e.g., due to construction delays, labor disruption, government-imposed work or travel restrictions, involuntary shutdowns or turnarounds;
•A supplier']:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. Prior to our adoption of ASC 842 in fiscal 2020, operating lease expense was $170 million for fiscal 2019. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense is net of sublease income and includes variable lease costs, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - -- (in millions) 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 3, 2021 were 8 years and 2.28%, respectively. As of December 3, 2021, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2022 $ 108 2023 87 2024 68 2025 65 2026 60 Thereafter 216 Total lease liabilities $ 604 Less: Imputed interest 54 Present value of lease liabilities $ 550 _________________________________________ (1) Operating lease payments exclude $16 million of legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. 91 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[' products. to purchase our products, delays in or interruptions of the supply of raw materials we purchase and bankruptcy of customers, suppliers or other creditors. Furthermore, some of the industries in which overcapacity, all of which may affect demand for and the pricing of our products. In addition, many of these industries are cyclical in nature, thus posing risks to us that vary throughout the year. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition.
We may incur significant charges in the event we close or divest all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility.
We periodically assess our manufacturing operations in order to manufacture and distribute our products in the most efficient manner. Based on our assessments, we may make capital improvements adjust our manufacturing operations. The closure or divestiture of all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility could result in future charges that could be significant. See Note 4 - Acquisitions, Dispositions and Plant Closures in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
We may not be able to complete future acquisitions or joint venture transactions or successfully integrate them into our business, which could adversely affect our business or results of operations.
As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions and joint venture opportunities. integrating operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired lines or businesses, personnel turnover and the diversion of management']:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

['s obligations under the Credit Agreement and the Indentures by Celanese, or our other indebtedness.

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments
None.

Item 2.  Properties
Description of Property
We own or lease numerous production and manufacturing facilities throughout the world. We also own or lease other properties, including office buildings, warehouses, pipelines, research and development facilities and sales offices. We continuously review and evaluate our facilities as a part of our strategy to optimize our business portfolio. The following table sets forth a list of our principal offices, production and other facilities throughout the world as of December 31, 2021.

29

Table of Contents

----------------------------- ------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Site Leased/Owned Products/Functions
Corporate Offices
Amsterdam, Netherlands Leased Administrative offices
Budapest, Hungary Leased Administrative offices
Irving, Texas, U.S. Leased Corporate headquarters
Nanjing, China Leased Administrative offices
Shanghai, China Leased Administrative offices
Sulzbach, Germany Leased Administrative offices
Engineered Materials
Auburn Hills, Michigan, U.S. Leased Automotive Development Center
Bishop, Texas, U.S. Owned POM, UHMW-PE, Compounding
Evansville, Indiana, U.S. Owned Compounding
Ferrara, Italy Leased Compounding
Florence, Kentucky, U.S. Owned Compounding
Forli, Italy Leased Compounding
Frankfurt am Main, Germany(1) Leased POM, Compounding, Sorbates, Sunett® sweetener
Kaiserslautern, Germany(1) Owned LFRT
Nanjing, China(1) Owned LFRT, UHMW-PE, Compounding
Newport, Wales, U.K. Owned TPV
Oberhausen, Germany(1) Leased UHMW-PE
Pensacola, Florida, U.S. Owned TPV
Shelby, North Carolina, U.S. Leased LCP
Silao, Mexico Leased Compounding
Silvassa, Gurjarat, India Owned Compounding
Suzano, Brazil(1) Leased Compounding
Suzhou, China Owned Compounding
Utzenfeld, Germany Owned Compounding
Acetate Tow
Lanaken, Belgium Owned Acetate tow
Narrows, Virginia, U.S. Owned Acetate tow, Acetate flake
Acetyl Chain
Bay City, Texas, U.S.(1) Leased VAM
Bishop, Texas, U.S. Owned Formaldehyde, Paraformaldehyde
Boucherville, Quebec, Canada Owned Conventional emulsions
Cangrejera, Mexico Owned Acetic anhydride, Ethyl acetate, Acetone derivatives
Clear Lake, Texas, U.S.(2) Owned Acetic acid, VAM, Methanol
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada Owned Low-density polyethylene resins, Ethylene vinyl acetate
Enoree, South Carolina, U.S. Owned VAE emulsions
Frankfurt am Main, Germany(1) Leased Acetaldehyde, Conventional emulsions, VAE emulsions, VAM, RDP
Geleen, Netherlands Owned VAE emulsions, RDP
Jurong Island, Singapore(1) Leased Acetic acid, Butyl acetate, Ethyl acetate, VAE emulsions, VAM
Moosleerau, Switzerland Owned RDP
Nanjing, China(1) Leased Acetic acid, Acetic anhydride, Conventional emulsions, VAE emulsions, VAM
Perstorp, Sweden Owned Conventional emulsions, VAE emulsions
Shanghai, China(1) Leased RDP
__________________________
(1)Celanese owns the assets on this site and leases the land through the terms of a long-term land lease.
(2)Methanol is produced by our joint venture, Fairway, in which Celanese owns a 50% interest.
Celanese also has entered into strategic ventures with partners in various locations around the world. See Item 1. Business for a discussion of our investments in affiliates and their respective site locations.

30

Table of Contents
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings
The Company is involved in legal and regulatory proceedings, lawsuits, claims and investigations incidental to the normal conduct of its business, relating to such matters as product liability, land disputes, insurance coverage disputes, contracts, employment, antitrust and competition, intellectual property, personal injury and other actions in tort, workers']:
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29

['s litigation accruals and estimates of possible loss or range of possible loss may not represent the ultimate loss to the Company from legal proceedings. See Note 13 - Environmental and Note 20 - Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of material environmental matters and material commitments and contingencies related to legal and regulatory proceedings. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for certain risk factors relating to these legal proceedings.

Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures
None.
Information about our Executive Officers
The names, ages and biographies of our executive officers as of February 10, 2022 are as follows:

-------------------- --- -------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name Age Position
Lori J. Ryerkerk 59 Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President
Scott A. Richardson 45 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Thomas F. Kelly 56 Senior Vice President, Engineered Materials
John G. Fotheringham 53 Senior Vice President, Acetyls
A. Lynne Puckett 59 Senior Vice President and General Counsel
Vanessa A. Dupuis 48 Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer

Lori J. Ryerkerk was named our Chief Executive Officer and President and a member of our board of directors effective May 2019. In April 2020, she was named Chairman roles in Refining and Chemicals Manufacturing, Power Generation, and various other groups including Supply, Economics and Planning, HSSE and Public Affairs/Government Relations. Ms. Ryerkerk received Coating Systems, a leading provider of liquid and powder coatings.
Scott A. Richardson was named Chief Financial Officer for Celanese Corporation in February 2018 after serving as Senior Vice President in 2005. Prior to joining Celanese, Mr. Richardson held various finance, operational and leadership roles at American Airlines. He earned a Bachelor of Arts in Accounting from Westminster College and a Master of Business Administration from Texas Christian University.

31

Table of Contents
Thomas F. Kelly was named Senior Vice President, Engineered Materials in April 2020, leading the Engineered Materials and pipeline companies, from September 2016 to January 2019. At Cabot Microelectronics he held the roles of Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and Vice President of Corporate Development. He Administration from Drexel University, and Master']:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

['s Degrees in Chemical Engineering from Villanova University.
John G. Fotheringham was named Senior Vice President, Acetyls in May 2020 and has global responsibility for the Celanese Acetyl Chain business. Prior to his current role, Mr. Fotheringham had served as Vice President of Global Acetic Acid & Celanese Europe since January 2017. He joined Celanese from ITW (Illinois Tool Works), a global diversified manufacturer of specialized industrial equipment, where he served as Vice President and General Manager from September 2016 to January 2017 with leadership responsibility in industrial applications including industrial lubrication and hygiene. From February 2014 to August 2016, he was Vice President with Wacker Chemie in Germany, where he was responsible for the global emulsions and resins business. Prior to joining Wacker, he was with Celanese for over 20 years in roles of increasing responsibility in the areas of commercial, supply chain and mergers and acquisitions. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Chemistry and Business Management from Kingston University, London.
A. Lynne Puckett joined Celanese Corporation in February 2019 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Prior to that, Ms. Puckett was Senior Vice President‚ General Counsel and Secretary of Colfax Corporation since 2010. Prior to Colfax‚ she was a Partner with the law firm of Hogan Lovells. Her experience includes a broad range of corporate and transactional matters‚ including mergers and acquisitions‚ venture capital financings‚ debt and equity offerings‚ and general corporate and securities law matters. Before entering the practice of law‚ Ms. Puckett worked for the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency and a major U.S. defense contractor. She currently serves on the board of directors of Markel Corporation, an insurance and investment operations holding company. Ms. Puckett received a Juris Doctor degree from the University of Maryland School of Law and a Bachelor of Science degree from James Madison University.
Vanessa A. Dupuis was named Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer in February of 2021. Ms. Dupuis joined Celanese in 2017 as the Head of Global Talent Management. In this role, she was responsible for supporting business growth by implementing strategies to attract, develop, engage and retain talent around the globe. In 2019, Ms. Dupuis assumed additional responsibilities as the Head of Human Resources for Celanese Corporate Functions, Procurement and Customer Experience. In this expanded role, Ms. Dupuis served as a strategic human resources partner to the CFO, General Counsel, Head of Procurement and Head of Customer Experience in defining and implementing workforce strategies that ensure long-term success for the Company. In 2020, Ms. Dupuis was named vice president of Global Total Rewards and HR Operations. Over her 20-year career, Ms. Dupuis has served in a variety of human resources leadership roles across several industries such as energy, financial services, technology and healthcare. Prior to joining Celanese, Ms. Dupuis served as Head of Executive Development & Leadership Assessments for Duke Energy; as Human Resources Executive for Bank of America; and as a Learning & Development Partner for Dell Inc. Ms. Dupuis earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Communications from Marist College, and a Master of Arts degree in Social & Organizational Psychology from Columbia University.

32

Table of Contents
PART II
Item 5.  Market for the Registrant']:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37

[' Equity in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Celanese Purchases of its Equity Securities
Information regarding repurchases of our Common Stock during the three months ended December 31, 2021 is as follows:

--------------------- ---------------------------------- --------------------------- - ---------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------- - -------------
Period Total Numberof Shares Purchased(1) AveragePrice Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Program Approximate DollarValue of SharesRemaining that May BePurchased Under the Program(2)
October 1 - 31, 2021 556,367 $ 162.24 556,367 $ 1,173,000,000
November 1 - 30, 2021 310,903 $ 166.53 310,903 $ 1,121,000,000
December 1 - 31, 2021 356,381 $ 162.72 356,381 $ 1,063,000,000
Total 1,223,651 1,223,651

___________________________
(1)May include shares withheld from employees to cover their withholding requirements for personal income taxes related to the vesting of restricted stock.
(2)Our Board of Directors has authorized the aggregate repurchase of $6.9 billion of our Common Stock since February 2008.
See Note 14 - Stockholders']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) 75 * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[" with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing.
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
Our deferred compensation plan offers certain of our senior employees and directors the opportunity to defer a portion of their compensation in exchange for a future payment amount equal to their deferments plus or minus certain amounts based upon the market-performance of specified measurement funds selected by the participant. These deferred compensation obligations may be considered securities of Celanese. Participants were required to make deferral elections under the plan prior to January 1 of the year such deferrals will be withheld from their compensation. We relied on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act in making this offer to a select group of employees, fewer than 35 of which were non-accredited investors under the rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

34

Table of Contents
Item 6. Reserved
This item is no longer required, as the Company has adopted the amendment to Item 301 of Regulation S-K contained in SEC Release No. 33-10890, which became effective on February 10, 2021.

Item 7. Management']:
Item 6. Reserved 35

['s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Risk Factors
Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report also contains a description of certain risk factors that you should consider which could significantly affect our financial results. In addition, the following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those results, performance or achievements that may be expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements:
•changes in general economic, business, political and regulatory conditions in the countries or regions in which we operate;
•volatility or changes in the price and availability of raw materials and energy, particularly changes in the demand for, supply of, and market prices of ethylene, methanol, natural gas, wood pulp and fuel oil and the prices for electricity and other energy sources;
•the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic continues to adversely impact the economic environment, market demand and our operations, as well as the pace of any economic recovery;
•the length and depth of product and industry business cycles particularly in the automotive, electrical, textiles, electronics and construction industries;
•the ability to pass increases in raw material prices on to customers or otherwise improve margins through price increases;
•the ability to maintain plant utilization rates and to implement planned capacity additions, expansions and maintenance;
•the ability to reduce or maintain current levels of production costs and to improve productivity by implementing technological improvements to existing plants;
•increased price competition and the introduction of competing products by other companies;
•the ability to identify desirable potential acquisition targets and to complete acquisition or investment transactions, including obtaining regulatory approvals, consistent with our strategy;
•market acceptance of our technology;
•compliance and other costs and potential disruption or interruption of production or operations due to accidents, interruptions in sources of raw materials, transportation or logistics disruptions, cybersecurity incidents, terrorism or political unrest, public health crises (including, but not limited to, the COVID-19 outbreak), or other unforeseen events or delays in construction or operation of facilities, including as a result of geopolitical conditions, the occurrence of acts of war or terrorist incidents or as a result of weather, natural disasters, or other crises;
•the ability to obtain governmental approvals and to construct facilities on terms and schedules acceptable to us;
•changes in applicable tariffs, duties and trade agreements, tax rates or legislation throughout the and legislative tax developments in other jurisdictions;
•changes in the degree of intellectual property and other legal protection afforded to our products or technologies, or the theft of such intellectual property;
•potential liability for remedial actions and increased costs under existing or future environmental, health and safety regulations, including those relating to climate change;
•potential liability in the countries in which we operate;

36

Table of Contents
•changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates; and
•various other factors, both referenced and not referenced in this Annual Report.
 we currently do not expect or consider to be significant, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results, performance or achievements may vary materially from those described in this Annual Report as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, planned or projected. We neither intend nor assume any obligation to update these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.
Results of Operations
Financial Highlights

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------- - ---- ----- ------ -------
 Year EndedDecember 31,
 2021 2020 Change
 (In $ millions, except percentages)
Statement of Operations Data
Net sales 8,537 5,655 2,882
Gross profit 2,682 1,293 1,389
Selling, general and administrative ("]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

["), partially offset by the maturity and repayment in full of the 5.875% senior unsecured notes (the "]:
(5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and which we believe helped mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on our results. We began to experience a decline in revenues in March 2020, when rental volume declined in response to shelter-in-place orders and other market restrictions. The volume declines were more pronounced in 2020 ...

[") and tender offer for 1.125% senior unsecured notes due September 26, 2023 (the "]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

["):

------------ -------------- ------------- ---------------- ------------------ ------------------ -----------------
Senior Notes Issue Date Principal Interest Rate Interest Pay Dates Maturity Date
 (In millions) (In percentages)

4.625% Notes November 2012 $500 4.625 March 15 September 15 November 15, 2022
1.125% Notes September 2016 €450 1.125 September 26 September 26, 2023
3.500% Notes May 2019 $500 3.500 May 8 November 8 May 8, 2024
1.250% Notes December 2017 €300 1.250 February 11 February 11, 2025
1.400% Notes August 2021 $400 1.400 February 5 August 5 August 5, 2026
2.125% Notes November 2018 €500 2.125 March 1 March 1, 2027
0.625% Notes September 2021 €500 0.625 September 10 September 10, 2028

The Senior Notes were issued by Celanese U.S. and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Celanese and the Subsidiary Guarantors. Celanese U.S. may redeem some or all of each of the Senior Notes, prior to their respective maturity dates, at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount, plus a "]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

["). We de-recognized $1.1 billion and $595 million of accounts receivable under this agreement for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and collected $1.1 billion and $476 million of accounts receivable sold under this agreement during the same periods. Unsold U.S. accounts receivable of $115 million were pledged by the SPE as collateral to the Purchasers as of December 31, 2021.
•Factoring and Discounting Agreements
We have factoring agreements in Europe and Singapore with financial institutions. We de-recognized $230 million and $233 million of accounts receivable under these factoring agreements for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and collected $185 million and $237 million of accounts receivable sold under these factoring agreements during the same periods.
In March 2021, we entered into a letter of credit discounting agreement in Singapore with a financial institution. We de-recognized $70 million of accounts receivable under this agreement for the year ended December 31, 2021.
Our material financing arrangements contain customary covenants, including the of the borrowings and other financial obligations. We are in compliance with all of the covenants related to our debt agreements as of December 31, 2021.
See Note 11 - Debt in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Guarantor Financial Information
The Senior Notes were issued by Celanese U.S. ("]:
NOTE 1. BASIS used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

["). See Note 11 - Debt in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information. The Issuer and Subsidiary Guarantors are 100% owned subsidiaries of the Parent Guarantor. The Parent Guarantor and Subsidiary Guarantors represent substantially all of the Company']:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, no shares were issued or outstanding. Class A and Class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. Share Repurchases In April 2021, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $50.0 billion of its Class C stock. In July 2021, the Alphabet board approved an amendment to the April 2021 authorization, permitting the company to repurchase both Class A and Class C shares in a manner deemed in the best interest of the company and its stockholders, taking into account the economic cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. As of December repurchased and subsequently retired during 2021, 1.2 million shares were Class A stock for $3.4 billion. Stock Split E...

['s other outstanding debt, Common Stock dividends and Common Stock repurchases.
The summarized financial information of the Obligor Group is presented below on a combined basis after the elimination of: (i) intercompany transactions among such entities and (ii) equity in earnings from and investments in the non-guarantor subsidiaries. Transactions with, and amounts due to or from, non-guarantor subsidiaries and affiliates are separately disclosed.

----------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
 Year Ended December 31,2021
 (In $ millions)

Net sales to third parties 1,745
Net sales to non-guarantor subsidiaries 1,015
Total net sales 2,760
Gross profit 506
Earnings (loss) from continuing operations 495
Net earnings (loss) 476
Net earnings (loss) attributable to the Obligor Group 476

-------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ---- -----
 As of December 31,
 2021 2020
 (In $ millions)

Receivables from non-guarantor subsidiaries 624 318
Other current assets 1,236 1,597
Total current assets 1,860 1,915
Goodwill 578 399
Other noncurrent assets 3,963 3,519
Total noncurrent assets 4,541 3,918
Current liabilities due to non-guarantor subsidiaries 2,493 1,206
Current liabilities due to affiliates 64 58
Other current liabilities 1,347 958
Total current liabilities 3,904 2,222
Noncurrent liabilities due to non-guarantor subsidiaries 2,348 1,593
Other noncurrent liabilities 3,610 3,648
Total noncurrent liabilities 5,958 5,241

Share Capital
On February 9, 2022, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.68 per share on our Common Stock amounting to approximately $73 million. The cash dividend will be paid on March 8, 2022 to holders of record as of February 22, 2022.
Our Board of Directors has authorized the aggregate repurchase of $6.9 billion of our Common Stock since February 2008. These authorizations give management discretion in determining the timing and conditions under which shares may be

48

Table of Contents
repurchased. This repurchase program does not have an expiration date. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we repurchased shares of our Common Stock at an aggregate cost of $1.0 billion. As of December 31, 2021, we had $1.1 billion remaining under authorizations by our Board of Directors.
See Note 14 - Stockholders']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) 75 * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

[") was enacted and was effective January 1, 2018. The U.S. Treasury has issued various final and proposed regulations supplementing the TCJA provisions since 2018. See Note 16 - Income Taxes in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
We are subject to the regular examination of our income tax returns by various tax authorities. Examinations in material jurisdictions or changes in laws, rules, regulations or interpretations by local taxing authorities could result in impacts to tax years open under statute or to foreign operating structures currently in place.
Our tax returns are under audit for the years 2013 through 2015 by the United States, the Netherlands and Germany. These authorities have proposed adjustments to transfer pricing and the reallocation of income between the related jurisdictions to open tax years through 2019. We are currently evaluating these proposals and all potential remedies. If this matter is resolved in a manner inconsistent with our expectations or we are unsuccessful in defending our position, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted.
We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of tax examinations or audits. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations or changes in laws, rules, regulations or interpretations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. It is possible the outcomes from these examinations will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results in future periods.
Risks Related to Our Human Capital
Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the identification and development of talent to succeed senior management.
Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel including our management team. The inability to recruit and retain talented employees or the unexpected loss of such talented employees or key personnel may adversely affect our operations. In 2021, like many companies, we experienced an increasingly competitive hiring environment for skilled employees at our manufacturing and other sites, which in some cases has increased, or may in the future increase, the cost of retaining or hiring talented employees, particularly in technical manufacturing roles critical to our success.
In addition, we rely on our senior management team specifically, therefore our future success depends in part on our ability to retain those members of senior management and to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management. The hiring and retention of key personnel and appropriate senior management succession planning will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategies.
Significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans and our pension cost.
The cost of our pension plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves many uncertainties during those periods of time. Our funding policy for pension plans is to accumulate plan assets that, over the long run, will approximate the present value of projected benefit obligations. Our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level and value of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected

27

Table of Contents
long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets will likely result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets and a change in the discount rate or mortality assumptions, which will likely result in an increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations. The combined impact of these changes will affect the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. In recent years, an extended duration strategy in the asset portfolio has been implemented in some plans to reduce the influence of liability volatility due to changes in interest rates. If the funded status of a pension plan declines, we may be required to make unscheduled contributions in addition to those contributions for which we have already planned. See Note 12 - Benefit Obligations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.
Some of our employees are unionized, represented by workers councils or are subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws of the U.S.
As of December 31, 2021, we had 8,529 employees globally. Approximately 15% of our 3,075 U.S.-based employees are unionized. In addition, a large number of our employees are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other employment rights than the laws of the U.S. Such employment rights require us to work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect any changes to labor agreements. Most of our employees in Europe are represented by workers councils and/or unions that must approve any changes in terms and conditions of employment, including potentially salaries and benefits. They may also impede efforts to restructure our workforce. Although we believe we have a good working relationship with our employees and their legal representatives, a strike, work stoppage, or slowdown by our employees could occur, resulting in a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs.
Risks Related to Our Indebtedness
Our level of indebtedness and other liabilities could diminish our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations or refinance our existing indebtedness when it matures, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or the chemicals industry and prevent us from meeting obligations under our indebtedness.
See Note 11 - Debt in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information about our indebtedness. See Note 12 - Benefit Obligations, Note 13 - Environmental and Note 20 - Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information about our other obligations.
Our level of indebtedness and other liabilities could have important consequences, including:
•Increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions, including exacerbating the impact of any adverse business effects that are determined to be material adverse events under our existing senior credit agreement (the "]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

[") were subject to a number of legal challenges, including applications for emergency injunctions. These actions were consolidated before the United States Supreme Court, which issued a decision in January 2022 that stayed implementation of the ETS. In the United States, the ETS or similar regulations could be re-approved or re-issued in a similar or different form, and around the world we anticipate that national, state and local governments will continue to pursue regulatory or legislative action designed to curb the spread of COVID-19. Such efforts could impose additional costs on our operations. These factors are uncertain, rapidly changing and cannot be predicted.

35

Table of Contents
The extent to which COVID-19 will adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations will depend on numerous evolving factors, which are highly uncertain, rapidly changing and cannot be predicted. For further information regarding the impact COVID-19 could have on our business, financial condition and results of operations, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. For further discussion of our liquidity condition, see Liquidity and Capital Resources in this Item 7. Management']:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21