================================================================================
CIK: 0001748790
Company Name: Amcor plc
Filing Date: 2022-08-18
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 08:15:58
================================================================================

Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Liquidity and Capital Resources," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on our credit rating profile.

    In addition, a significant number of our operating subsidiaries are not guarantors of our indebtedness. In the event that any non-guarantor subsidiary becomes insolvent, liquidates, reorganizes, dissolves, or otherwise winds up, the assets of such subsidiary will be used to satisfy the claims of its creditors. The non-guarantor subsidiaries have no direct obligations in respect of our indebtedness and therefore, a direct claim against any non-guarantor subsidiary and any claims to enforce payment on our indebtedness will be structurally subordinated to all of the claims of the creditors of our non-guarantor subsidiaries.

Exchange Rates — We are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk.

    We are subject to foreign exchange rate risk, both transactional and translational, which may negatively affect our financial performance. Transactional foreign exchange exposures result from exchange rate fluctuations, including in respect of the U.S. dollar, the Euro, the Russian ruble and other currencies, including in Latin America, in which our costs are denominated, which may affect our business input costs and proceeds from product sales. Translational foreign exchange exposures result from exchange rate fluctuations in the conversion of entity functional currencies to U.S. dollars, our reporting currency, and may affect the reported value of our assets and liabilities and our income and expenses. In particular, our translational exposure may be impacted by movements in the exchange rate between the Euro, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Australian Dollar, the Chinese Yuan, and the Brazilian Real against the U.S. dollar.

    Exchange rates between transactional currencies may change rapidly due to a variety of factors. In addition, we have recognized foreign exchange losses related to the currency devaluation in Argentina and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under U.S. GAAP. See Note 2, "Significant Accounting Policies," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information regarding highly inflationary accounting.

    To the extent currency devaluation occurs across our business, we are likely to experience a lag in the timing to pass through U.S. dollar-denominated input costs across our business, which would adversely impact our margins and profitability. As such, we may be exposed to future exchange rate fluctuations, and such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our

19

reported cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations, the effect of which may be material. Our Board of Directors has approved a hedging policy to limit and manage the risk of such foreign exchange fluctuations, however, if our hedges are not effective in mitigating our foreign currency risks, if we are under-hedged, or if a hedge provider defaults on their obligations under hedging arrangements, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.

Interest Rates — Rising interest rates increase our borrowing costs on our variable rate indebtedness and could have other negative impacts.

     As of June 30, 2022, approximately fifty percent of our indebtedness was subject to variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, our debt service obligations increase on our variable rate indebtedness even though the amount borrowed remains the same. Increases in short-term interest rates will directly impact the amount of interest we pay. We manage exposure to interest rates by maintaining a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, monitoring global interest rates, and, where appropriate, entering into various derivative instruments. However, if our derivative instruments are not effective in mitigating our interest rate risk, if we are under-hedged, or if a hedge provider defaults on their obligations under hedging arrangements, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.

    In addition, rising interest rates could reduce the attractiveness of cash management programs we use, such as customer and supply chain finance programs, which could negatively impact our cash and working capital and increase our borrowings. Refer to Note 14, "Debt," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information about our variable rate borrowings. Also refer to "Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk," including interest rate risk, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets — A significant write-down of goodwill and/or other intangible assets would have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial position.

    As of June 30, 2022, we had $6.9 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets. We review our goodwill balance for impairment at least once a year and whenever events or a change in circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred using the business valuation methods allowed in accordance with current accounting standards. Future changes in the cost of capital, expected cash flows, or other factors may cause our goodwill and/or other intangible assets to be impaired, resulting in a non-cash charge against results of operations to write down these assets for the amount of the impairment. In addition, if we make changes in our business strategy or if external conditions, such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict, adversely affect our business operations, we may be required to record an impairment charge for goodwill or intangibles, which would lead to decreased assets and reduced net operating results. If a significant write down is required, the charge would have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and net worth. We have identified the valuation of intangible assets and goodwill as a critical accounting estimate. See "Item 7. - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Internal Controls — If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting we may not be able to accurately report our financial results which may adversely affect investor confidence and adversely impact our stock price.

    We have been subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ("SOX") since fiscal year 2020. While our internal controls over financial reporting currently meet the standards set forth in SOX, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements as any controls or procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance from misstatement. We identified two material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in connection with our listing on the NYSE in 2019 related to U.S. GAAP expertise and segregation of duties within key information technology systems which were remediated in fiscal years 2020 and 2021, respectively.

    There can be no assurance that we will not identify new material weaknesses in the future. Any newly identified material weaknesses could limit our ability to prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial results, lead to a loss of investor confidence, and have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock.

Insurance — Our insurance policies, including our use of a captive insurance company, may not provide adequate protection against all of the risks we face.

    We seek protection from a number of our key operational risk exposures through the purchase of insurance. A significant portion of our insurance is placed in the insurance market with third-party re-insurers. Our policies with such third-party re-insurers cover a variety of risk exposures, including property damage. Although we believe the coverage provided by such policies is consistent with industry practice, they may not adequately cover certain risks and there is no guarantee that any

20

claims made under such policies will ultimately be paid or that we will be able to maintain such insurance at acceptable premium cost levels in the future.

    Additionally, we retain a portion of our insurable risk through a captive insurance company, Amcor Insurances Pte Ltd, which is located in Singapore. Our captive insurance company collects annual premiums from our business groups, and assumes specific risks relating to various risk exposures, including property damage. The captive insurance company may be required to make payment for insurance claims which exceed the captive's reserves, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

Legal and Compliance Risks

Intellectual Property — Our inability to defend our intellectual property rights or intellectual property infringement claims against us could have an adverse impact on our ability to compete effectively.

    Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to protect and maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. We own a number of patents on our products, aspects of our products, methods of use and/or methods of manufacturing, and we own, or have licenses to use, the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, and other unpatented proprietary technology. If we are unable to detect the infringement of our intellectual property or to enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position may suffer. The use of our intellectual property by someone else without our authorization could reduce certain of our competitive advantages, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business.

    We attempt to protect and restrict access to our intellectual property and proprietary information by relying on the patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws of the countries in which we operate, as well as non-disclosure agreements. However, it may be possible for a third party to obtain our information without our authorization, independently develop similar technologies, or breach a non-disclosure agreement entered into with us. Our pending patent applications, and our pending trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademarks. Our competitors might avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. In addition, our patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. Furthermore, many of the countries in which we operate, particularly the emerging markets, do not have intellectual property laws that protect proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the more developed jurisdictions in which we operate, such as the United States and the European Union. The costs associated with protecting our intellectual property rights could also adversely impact our business.

    Similarly, while we have not received any significant claims from third parties suggesting that we may be infringing on their intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that we will not receive such claims in the future. If we were held liable for a claim of infringement, we could be required to pay damages, obtain licenses or cease making or selling certain products. Intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us and divert the attention of management, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. We may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. Failure to protect our patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

Litigation — Litigation, including product liability claims, or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business operations, and financial performance.

    We are, and in the future will likely become, involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. Given our global footprint, we are exposed to more uncertainty regarding the regulatory environment. The timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is typically uncertain. Additionally, the possible outcomes of, or resolutions to, these proceedings could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments. In addition, actions we have taken or may take, or decisions we have made or may make, as a consequence of COVID-19 or the Russia-Ukraine conflict, may result in legal claims or litigation against us. Refer to "Item 3. - Legal Proceedings" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") Practices — Increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from investors, customers, and governments with respect to our ESG practices and commitments may impose additional costs on us or expose us to additional risks.

21

    There is an increased scrutiny from shareholders, customers, and governments on corporate ESG practices. Our commitment to sustainability and ESG practices remains at the core of our business and we have established goals and targets related to our commitment. However, our ESG practices may not meet the standards of all of our stakeholders and advocacy groups may campaign for further changes. Many of our large, global customers are also committing to long-term targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions within their supply chains. If we are unable to support customers in achieving these reductions, customers may seek out competitors who are better able to support such reductions. A failure, or perceived failure, to respond to expectations of all parties, including with meeting our own climate-related and other ESG target ambitions, could cause harm to our business and reputation and have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock. New government regulations could also result in new or more stringent forms of ESG oversight and disclosures which may result in increased expenditures for environmental controls, new taxes on the products we produce and significantly increase our compliance costs to meet new disclosure requirements.

Environmental, Health, and Safety regulations — Changing government regulations in environmental, health, and safety matters, including climate change, may adversely affect our company.

    Numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives have been passed and anticipated in response to concerns about greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. We are a manufacturing entity that utilizes petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our products. Increased environmental legislation or regulation, including regulations related to extended producer responsibility ("EPR"), could result in higher costs for us in the form of higher raw material cost, increased energy and freight costs, and new taxes on packaging products or result in reduced demand. It is possible that certain materials might cease to be permitted to be used in our processes. Government bans of, or restrictions on certain materials or packaging formats may close off markets to Amcor's business. Mandates to use certain types of materials, such as post-consumer recycled ("PCR") content, may lead to supply shortages and higher prices for those materials as current recycling rates may be insufficient to meet increased demand for PCR within and beyond the packaging industry.

    We could also incur additional compliance costs for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining permits. Additionally, a sizable portion of our business comes from healthcare packaging and food and beverage packaging, both highly regulated markets. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, our results of operations could be adversely impacted.

Tax Law Changes —Changes in tax laws or changes in our geographic mix of earnings could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operation.

    We are subject to income and other taxes in the many jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws and regulations are complex and the determination of our global provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. We are subject to routine examinations of our income tax returns, and tax authorities may disagree with our tax positions and assess additional tax. Our future income taxes could also be negatively impacted by our mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate being different than anticipated given differences in statutory tax rates in the countries in which we operate. In addition, certain tax policy efforts, including any tax law changes resulting from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ("OECD") and the G20's inclusive framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting ("BEPS"), could adversely impact our tax rate and subsequent tax expense. Despite the publication of the Anti Global Base Erosion model rules and initial commentary, there are many open points to be clarified and there is still significant uncertainty, which we will continue to monitor until a more conclusive assessment will be possible.

Risks Relating to Being a Jersey, Channel Islands Company Listing Ordinary Shares

Our ordinary shares are issued under the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands, which may not provide the level of legal certainty and transparency afforded by incorporation in a U.S. jurisdiction and which differ in some respects to the laws applicable to other U.S. corporations.

    We are organized under the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands, a British crown dependency that is an island located off the coast of Normandy, France. Jersey is not a member of the European Union. Jersey, Channel Islands legislation regarding companies is largely based on English corporate law principles. The rights of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by Jersey law, including the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, as amended, and by the Amcor Articles of Association, as may be amended from time to time. These rights differ in some respects from the rights of other shareholders in corporations incorporated in the United States. Further, there can be no assurance that the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands, will not change in the future or that they will serve to protect investors in a similar fashion afforded under corporate law principles in the U.S., which could adversely affect the rights of investors.

22

U.S. shareholders may not be able to enforce civil liabilities against us.

    A significant portion of our assets are located outside of the United States and several of our directors and officers are citizens or residents of jurisdictions outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to successfully serve a claim within the United States upon those non-U.S. directors and officers, or to enforce judgments realized in the United States.

    Judgments of U.S. courts may not be directly enforceable outside of the U.S. and the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts outside of the U.S., including those in Australia and Jersey, may be subject to limitations. Investors may also have difficulties pursuing an original action brought in a court in a jurisdiction outside the U.S., including Australia and Jersey, for liabilities under the securities laws of the U.S. Additionally, our Articles of Association provide that while the Royal Court of Jersey will have non-exclusive jurisdiction over actions brought against us, the Royal Court of Jersey will be the sole and exclusive forum for derivative shareholder actions, actions for breach of fiduciary duty by our directors and officers, actions arising out of Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, as amended, or actions asserting a claim against our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The exclusive forum provision would not prevent derivative shareholder actions based on claims arising under U.S. federal securities laws from being raised in a U.S. court and would not prevent a U.S. court from asserting jurisdiction over such claims. However, there is uncertainty whether a U.S. or Jersey court would enforce the exclusive forum provision for actions claiming breach of fiduciary duty and other claims.

23

Item 1B. - Unresolved Staff Comments

 None.

Item 2. - Properties

    We consider our plants and other physical properties, whether owned or leased, to be suitable, adequate, and of sufficient productive capacity to meet the requirements of our business. Our manufacturing plants operate at varying levels of utilization depending on the type of operation and market conditions. The breakdown of our significant manufacturing and support facilities at June 30, 2022 were as follows:

Flexibles Segment

    This segment has 169 significant manufacturing and support facilities located in 39 countries, of which 118 are owned directly by us and 51 are leased from outside parties. Initial building lease terms typically provide for minimum terms in a range of two to 36 years and have one or more renewal options.

Rigid Packaging Segment

    This segment has 52 significant manufacturing and support facilities located in 11 countries, of which 12 are owned directly by us and 40 are leased from outside parties. Initial building lease terms typically provide for minimum terms in a range of two to 20 years and have one or more renewal options.

Corporate and General

 Our primary executive offices are located in Zurich, Switzerland.

Item 3. - Legal Proceedings

    Refer to Note 20, "Contingencies and Legal Proceedings," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information about legal proceedings.

Item 4. - Mine Safety Disclosures

 Not applicable.

24

PART II

Item 5. - Market for Registrant's Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

    Our ordinary shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") under the symbol AMCR and our CHESS Depositary Instruments ("CDIs") are traded on the Australian Securities Exchange (the "ASX") under the symbol AMC. As of June 30, 2022, there were 105,788 registered holders of record of our ordinary shares and CDIs.

Share Repurchases

    Share repurchase activity during the three months ended June 30, 2022 was as follows (in millions, except number of shares, which are reflected in thousands, and per share amounts, which are expressed in U.S. dollars):

------------------ ------------------------------------ ----------------------------------- ----- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------ -- - ---
Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid Per Share (1)(2) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Programs (3)
April 1 - 30, 2022 — $ — — $ 178
May 1 - 31, 2022 11,324 12.62 10,324 45
June 1 - 30, 2022 3,423 13.24 3,423 —
Total 14,747 $ 12.76 13,747

(1)Includes shares purchased on the open market to satisfy the vesting and exercises of share-based compensation awards.
(2)Average price paid per share excludes costs associated with the repurchase.
(3)On August 17, 2021, our Board of Directors approved a buyback of $400 million of ordinary shares and/or CHESS Depositary Instruments ("CDIs") during the following twelve months. In addition, on February 1, 2022, our Board of Directors approved an additional $200 million buyback of ordinary shares and CDIs during the next twelve months. Both buyback programs have been completed as of June 30, 2022. On August 17, 2022, our Board of Directors approved a further $400 million buyback of ordinary shares and/or CHESS Depositary Instruments ("CDIs") during the next twelve months. The timing, volume, and nature of share repurchases may be amended, suspended, or discontinued at any time.

25

Shareholder Return Performance

    The information under this caption "Shareholder Return Performance" in this Item 5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not deemed to be "soliciting material" or to be "filed" with the SEC or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C under the Exchange Act, or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act and will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference into such a filing.

    The line graph below compares the annual percentage change in Amcor plc's cumulative total shareholder return on its ordinary shares with the cumulative total return of its Peer Group, International Packaging Peer Group, the S&P 500 Index, and the ASX 200 Index for the period beginning June 11, 2019. The graph assumes $100 was invested on June 11, 2019, and that all dividends were reinvested. The Company has elected to change the composition of the presented peer group from the International Packaging Peer Group to a new Peer Group, the composition of which is detailed later in this section. The Company believes that the new Peer Group provides investors with more relevant information about the Company's total shareholder return and relative performance against comparable companies both in Australia and internationally. As of June 30, 2022, the Company presents a transition total shareholder return graph that incorporates both Peer Group and International Packaging Peer Group.

---------------------------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ------------- ------ - ------ - ------
 June 11, 2019 June 30, 2019 June 30, 2020 June 30, 2021 June 30, 2022
Amcor plc $ 100.00 $ 102.77 $ 95.68 $ 111.82 $ 126.13
S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 107.05 $ 115.08 $ 162.03 $ 144.83
S&P/ASX 200 $ 100.00 $ 102.08 $ 93.59 $ 131.41 $ 114.86
Peer Group $ 100.00 $ 100.12 $ 104.54 $ 124.79 $ 126.34
International Packaging Peer Group $ 100.00 $ 101.55 $ 91.28 $ 135.67 $ 114.23

26

    The Peer Group consists of Ansell Limited, AptarGroup, Inc., Avery Dennison Corporation, Ball Corporation, Berry Global Group, Inc., Brambles Limited, Coles Group Limited, Conagra Brands Inc., Crown Holdings, Inc., Danone SA, General Mills Inc., Graphic Packaging Holding Co, Huhtamaki Oyj, International Paper Company, Johnson & Johnson, The Kraft Heinz Company, Mondelez International, Inc., Nestlé S.A., O-I Glass, Inc., Orora Limited, Pepsico, Inc., The Procter & Gamble Company, Sealed Air Corporation, Silgan Holdings Inc., Sonoco Products Company, Treasury Wine Estates Limited, Unilever PLC, Wesfarmers Limited, WestRock Company, and Woolworths Group Limited.

    The International Packaging Peer Group consists of AptarGroup, Inc., Ball Corporation, Berry Global Group, Inc., CCL Industries Inc., Crown Holdings, Inc., Graphic Packaging Holding Company, Huhtamaki Oyj, International Paper Company, Mayr-Melnhof Karton AG, O-I Glass, Inc., Sealed Air Corporation, Silgan Holdings Inc., Sonoco Products Company, and WestRock Company. The International Packaging Peer Group has been replaced by the Peer Group and will not be published in future Annual Reports on Form 10-K.

27

Item 7. - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Two Year Review of Results

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------- ------ ---- ------ ----- - -------- - ------ ------ ----- -
(in millions) 2022 2021
Net sales $ 14,544 100.0 % $ 12,861 100.0 %
Cost of sales (11,724) (80.6) (10,129) (78.8)

Gross profit 2,820 19.4 2,732 21.2

Operating expenses:
Selling, general, and administrative expenses (1,284) (8.8) (1,292) (10.0)
Research and development expenses (96) (0.7) (100) (0.8)
Restructuring, impairment, and related expenses, net (234) (1.6) (94) (0.7)
Other income, net 33 0.2 75 0.6

Operating income 1,239 8.5 1,321 10.3

Interest income 24 0.2 14 0.1
Interest expense (159) (1.1) (153) (1.2)
Other non-operating income, net 11 0.1 11 0.1

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in income/(loss) of affiliated companies 1,115 7.7 1,193 9.3

Income tax expense (300) (2.1) (261) (2.0)
Equity in income/(loss) of affiliated companies, net of tax — — 19 0.1

Net income $ 815 5.6 % $ 951 7.4 %

Net income attributable to non-controlling interests (10) (0.1) (12) (0.1)

Net income attributable to Amcor plc $ 805 5.5 % $ 939 7.3 %

28

Overview

    Amcor is a global leader in developing and producing responsible packaging for food, beverage, pharmaceutical, medical, home and personal-care, and other products. We work with leading companies around the world to protect their products and the people who rely on them, differentiate brands, and improve supply chains through a range of flexible and rigid packaging, specialty cartons, closures, and services. We are focused on making packaging that is increasingly light-weighted, recyclable and reusable, and made using an increasing amount of recycled content. During fiscal year 2022, Amcor generated $14.5 billion in sales from operations that spanned 221 locations in over 40 countries.

Significant Items Affecting the Periods Presented

Impact of COVID-19

    We continue to monitor the impact of the ongoing 2019 Novel Coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic on all aspects of our business. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in intermittent regional government restrictions on the movement of people, goods, and non-essential services resulting in a period of historic uncertainty and challenges. We remain focused on our commitment to the health and safety of our employees as our first priority. We expect to continue to evaluate our response and related precautions until the COVID-19 pandemic has been fully resolved as a public health crisis.

    We have experienced minimal disruptions to our operations to date as we have largely been deemed as providing essential services. Our facilities have largely been exempt from government mandated closure orders and while governmental measures may be modified, we expect that our facilities will remain operational given the essential products we supply. However, despite our best efforts to contain the impact in our facilities, it remains possible that significant disruptions could occur as a result of the pandemic, including temporary closures of our facilities due to outbreaks of the virus among our workforce or government mandates.

    We continue to believe we are well-positioned to meet the challenges of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. However, we cannot reasonably estimate the duration and severity of this pandemic or its ultimate impact on the global economy and our operations and financial results. The ultimate near-term impact of the pandemic on our business will depend on the extent and nature of any future disruptions across the supply chain, the implementation of further social distancing measures and other government-imposed restrictions, as well as the nature and pace of macroeconomic recovery in key global economies.

Raw Material, Inflation, and Supply Chain Trends

    During fiscal year 2022, we experienced persistent supply shortages and price volatility of certain resins and raw materials in both of our reportable segments as a result of market dynamics that first materialized in the second half of fiscal year 2021 and higher rates of regional inflation impacting energy, fuel, and labor costs. The underlying causes for the volatility can be attributed to a variety of factors, including the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic resulting in labor shortages and transportation constraints, energy shortages and weather disruptions impacting raw material supply in certain regions. The complex factors driving ongoing market volatility continue and could be further exacerbated by the continuation of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. We intend to continue to work closely with our suppliers and customers, leveraging our global capabilities and expertise to work through supply and other resulting issues.

South Africa Fire

    On July 13, 2021, our Durban, South Africa, manufacturing facility was destroyed by fire associated with general civil unrest. The facility employed 350 individuals and no employees were injured as the facility had been closed in advance of the disturbance. In fiscal year 2022, we recorded $45 million in expense before insurance settlements, primarily related to inventory, property, and equipment losses from the fire and other related expenses. We have insurance for the majority of property and other losses resulting from the fire and have received $33 million in insurance settlements in fiscal year 2022.

Russia-Ukraine Conflict

    Russia's invasion of Ukraine that began in February 2022 continues as of the date of the filing of this annual report. In advance of the invasion, we proactively suspended operations at our small manufacturing site in Ukraine. We also operate three manufacturing facilities in Russia. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022, after a thorough review of our strategic options, we committed to sell our Russian operations, which resulted in a non-cash $90 million impairment charge.

29

    Since our decision in March 2022 to scale back our Russian operations, we have remained committed to continuing to support our Russian and Ukraine employees and customers. We are proactively taking steps to mitigate the financial impact of exiting our Russian operations, including adjusting our European footprint to reallocate and consolidate volumes from Russia and Ukraine to leverage utilization and deliver enhanced efficiencies across Central and Western Europe, as well as taking actions to restructure our regional cost base. In addition to the $90 million in impairment charges on assets held for sale, we incurred $48 million in other impairment charges given the expectation that certain assets not held for sale in the conflict region will not be recoverable, and $62 million in restructuring and other costs in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022 related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict. We expect approximately $30 million in additional restructuring and other costs in fiscal year 2023 related to our exit decision.

    For further information, refer to Note 4, "Restructuring, Impairment, and Related Expenses, net," Note 6, "Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations," and Note 7, "Restructuring" of "Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

2019 Bemis Integration Plan

    In connection with the acquisition of Bemis Company, Inc. ("Bemis"), we initiated restructuring activities in the fourth quarter of 2019 aimed at integrating and optimizing the combined organization. We have exceeded the targeted pre-tax synergies of $180 million by approximately 10% driven by procurement, supply chain and general and administrative savings as of June 30, 2022.

    The 2019 Bemis Integration Plan was completed by June 30, 2022, with final pre-tax integration cost amounting to $253 million. The total 2019 Bemis Integration Plan cost includes $213 million of restructuring and related expenses, net, and $40 million of general integration expenses. The net cash expenditures for the plan, including disposal proceeds, are $170 million, of which $40 million relates to general integration expenses. As part of this Plan, we have incurred $144 million in employee related expenses, $36 million in fixed asset related expenses, $39 million in other restructuring and $45 million in restructuring related expenses, partially offset by a gain on disposal of a business of $51 million. In fiscal year 2022, the Plan resulted in net cash outflows of $49 million of which $47 million were payments related to restructuring and related expenditures. The remaining cash outflow will be primarily incurred in fiscal year 2023.

2018 Rigid Packaging Restructuring Plan

    On August 21, 2018, we announced a restructuring plan in Amcor Rigid Packaging ("2018 Rigid Packaging Restructuring Plan") aimed at reducing structural costs and optimizing the footprint. The Plan included the closures of manufacturing facilities and headcount reductions to achieve manufacturing footprint optimization and productivity improvements, as well as overhead cost reductions.

    The 2018 Rigid Packaging Restructuring Plan was completed by June 30, 2021 with total pre-tax restructuring costs of $121 million, of which $78 million resulted in cash expenditures, with the main component being the cost to exit manufacturing facilities and employee related costs.

    For more information about our restructuring plans, refer to Note 7, "Restructuring."

Equity Method Investment - AMVIG Holdings Limited ("AMVIG")

    We sold our equity method investment in AMVIG on September 30, 2020, realizing a net gain of $15 million, which was recorded in equity in income/(loss) of affiliated companies, net of tax in the consolidated statements of income. Prior to the sale and due to impairment indicators being present for the year ended June 30, 2020, we performed impairment tests by comparing the carrying value of our investment in AMVIG to the fair value of the investment, which was determined based on AMVIG's quoted share price. We recorded an impairment charge of $26 million in fiscal year 2020, as the fair value of the investment was below its carrying value. Refer to Note 8, "Equity Method and Other Investments."

Highly Inflationary Accounting

    We have subsidiaries in Argentina that historically had a functional currency of the Argentine Peso. As of June 30, 2018, the Argentine economy was designated as highly inflationary for accounting purposes. Accordingly, beginning July 1, 2018, we began reporting the financial results of our Argentine subsidiaries with a functional currency of the U.S. dollar. The transition to highly inflationary accounting resulted in a negative impact on monetary balances of $16 million, $19 million, and $28 million that was reflected in the consolidated statements of income for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively.

30

Results of Operations

The following is a discussion and analysis of changes in the results of operations for fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021. A discussion and analysis regarding our results of operations for fiscal year 2021 compared to fiscal year 2020 that are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K can be found in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, filed with the SEC on August 24, 2021 and incorporated by reference.

Consolidated Results of Operations

--------------------------------------------- ----- ------ ---- ----- - ------
($ in millions, except per share data) 2022 2021
Net sales $ 14,544 $ 12,861
Operating income 1,239 1,321
Operating income as a percentage of net sales 8.5 % 10.3 %

Net income attributable to Amcor plc $ 805 $ 939
Diluted Earnings Per Share $ 0.529 $ 0.602

    Net sales increased by $1,683 million, or by 13.1%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. Excluding the impact of disposed and ceased operations of $87 million, or (0.7%), negative currency impacts of $249 million, or (1.9%), and pass-through of raw material costs of $1,530 million, or 11.9%, the increase in net sales for the fiscal year 2022 was $490 million or 3.8%, driven by marginally favorable volumes of 0.4% and favorable price/mix of 3.4%.

    Net income attributable to Amcor plc decreased by $134 million, or by 14.3%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021, mainly as a result of increased restructuring, impairment, and related expenses, net of $140 million, largely due to costs related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict, and higher tax charges of $39 million, offset by increased gross profit of $88 million.

    Diluted earnings per share ("Diluted EPS") decreased by $0.073, or by 12.1%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021, with net income attributable to ordinary shareholders decreasing by 14.3% and the diluted weighted-average number of shares outstanding decreasing by 2.6%. The decrease in the diluted weighted-average number of shares outstanding was due to repurchase of shares under announced share buyback programs.

Segment Results of Operations

 Flexibles Segment

 The Flexibles reportable segment develops and supplies flexible packaging globally.

--------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- ------ ---- ----- - ------
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Net sales including intersegment sales $ 11,151 $ 10,040
Adjusted EBIT from continuing operations 1,517 1,427
Adjusted EBIT from continuing operations as a percentage of net sales 13.6 % 14.2 %

    Net sales including intersegment sales increased by $1,111 million, or by 11.1%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. Excluding the impact of disposed and ceased operations of $87 million, or (0.8%), negative currency impacts of $248 million, or (2.5%), and pass-through of raw material costs of $1,091 million, or 10.9%, the increase in net sales including intersegment sales for fiscal year 2022 was $355 million, or 3.5%, driven by favorable price/mix.

    Adjusted earnings before interest and tax from continuing operations ("Adjusted EBIT") increased by $90 million, or by 6.3% in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. Excluding the impact of disposed and ceased operations of $4 million, or (0.2%) and negative currency impacts of $31 million, or 2.3%, the increase in Adjusted EBIT for fiscal year 2022 was $125 million, or 8.8%, driven by favorable price/mix of 8.0%, plant cost improvements of 2.4% and favorable volumes of 0.8%, partially offset by unfavorable selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") and other cost impacts of (2.4%).

31

 Rigid Packaging Segment

 The Rigid Packaging reportable segment manufactures rigid packaging containers and related products.

--------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- - -----
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Net sales $ 3,393 $ 2,823
Adjusted EBIT from continuing operations 289 299
Adjusted EBIT from continuing operations as a percentage of net sales 8.5 % 10.6 %

    Net sales increased by $570 million, or by 20.2%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. Excluding positive currency impacts of $1 million, and pass-through of raw material costs of $439 million, or 15.6%, the increase in net sales including intersegment sales for the fiscal year 2022 was $132 million, or 4.7%, driven by favorable volumes of 2.8% and favorable price/mix of 1.9%.

    Adjusted EBIT decreased by $10 million, or by 3.3%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. With minor impacts from currency impacts, the decrease in Adjusted EBIT for fiscal year 2022 was $10 million, or 3.5%, driven by favorable price/mix of 20.5%, favorable volumes of 9.2%, unfavorable plant costs of (30.0%), and unfavorable selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A"), and other cost impacts of (3.2%).

Consolidated Gross Profit

----------------------------------------- ---- ----- ---- ---- - -----
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Gross profit $ 2,820 $ 2,732
Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 19.4 % 21.2 %

    Gross profit increased by $88 million, or by 3.2%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. The increase was primarily driven by the increase in net sales of 13.1% referred to above. Gross profit as a percentage of sales decreased to 19.4% for the fiscal year 2022, primarily due to the impact on the calculation from the pass through of higher raw material costs during the period.

Consolidated Selling, General, and Administrative ("SG&A") Expenses

------------------------------------------ ----- ------- ---- ------ - -------
($ in millions) 2022 2021
SG&A expenses $ (1,284) $ (1,292)
SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales (8.8) % (10.0) %

    SG&A decreased by $8 million, or by 0.6%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021, largely driven by favorable exchange rates.

Consolidated Restructuring, Impairment, and Related Expenses, Net

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- - ----
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Restructuring, impairment, and related expenses, net $ (234) $ (94)
Restructuring, impairment, and related expenses, net, as a percentage of net sales (1.6) % (0.7) %

    Restructuring, impairment, and related costs increased by $140 million, or by 148.9%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. The increase was primarily driven by the non-recurrence of a gain on disposal of a non-core European hospital supplies business of $52 million in fiscal year 2021, and charges related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict in fiscal year 2022, offset by the completion of the Rigid Packaging Restructuring Plan in June 2021.

Consolidated Other Income, Net

----------------------------------------------- ---- -- ---- --- - --
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Other income, net $ 33 $ 75
Other income, net, as a percentage of net sales 0.2 % 0.6 %

32

    Other income, net decreased by $42 million, or by 56.0% , in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021, mainly due to the non-reoccurrence of credits related to a favorable Brazil Supreme Court ruling on Brazil indirect tax in fiscal year 2021.

Consolidated Interest Income

-------------------------------------------- ---- -- ---- --- - --
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Interest income $ 24 $ 14
Interest income as a percentage of net sales 0.2 % 0.1 %

    Interest income increased by $10 million, or by 71.4%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021, mainly driven by yield improvements on Euro denominated commercial paper and improved rates on cash balances held by the Group.

Consolidated Interest Expense

--------------------------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- - -----
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Interest expense $ (159) $ (153)
Interest expense as a percentage of net sales (1.1) % (1.2) %

    Interest expense increased by $6 million, or by 3.9%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021 due to higher short-term variable rates.

Consolidated Income Tax Expense

------------------ ---- ----- ---- ---- - -----
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Income tax expense $ (300) $ (261)
Effective tax rate 26.9 % 21.9 %

    Income tax expense increased by $39 million, or by 14.9%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. The increase was predominantly attributable to an increase in tax provisions for uncertain tax positions.

33

Presentation of Non-GAAP Information

    This Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to non-GAAP financial measures: adjusted earnings before interest and taxes ("Adjusted EBIT"), adjusted net income, and net debt. Such measures have not been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). These non-GAAP financial measures adjust for factors that are unusual or unpredictable. These measures exclude the impact of significant tax reforms, certain amounts related to the effect of changes in currency exchange rates, acquisitions, and restructuring, including employee-related costs, equipment relocation costs, accelerated depreciation, and the write-down of equipment. These measures also exclude gains or losses on sales of significant property and divestitures, significant property and other impairments, net of insurance recovery, certain litigation matters, significant pension settlements, impairments in goodwill and equity method investments, and certain acquisition-related expenses, including transaction expenses, due diligence expenses, professional and legal fees, purchase accounting adjustments for inventory, order backlog, intangible amortization, changes in the fair value of deferred acquisition payments, and impacts related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict.

 This adjusted information should not be construed as an alternative to results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We use the non-GAAP measures to evaluate operating performance and believe that these non-GAAP measures are useful to enable investors and other external parties to perform comparisons of our current and historical performance.

    A reconciliation of reported net income attributable to Amcor plc to Adjusted EBIT from continuing operations and adjusted net income from continuing operations for fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020 is as follows:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - -----
 Years ended June 30,
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Net income attributable to Amcor plc, as reported $ 805 $ 939 $ 612
Add: Net income attributable to non-controlling interests 10 12 4
Add: (Income)/loss from discontinued operations, net of tax — — 8
Income from continuing operations 815 951 624
Add: Income tax expense 300 261 187
Add: Interest expense 159 153 207
Less: Interest income (24) (14) (22)
EBIT from continuing operations 1,250 1,351 996
Add: Material restructuring programs (1) 37 88 106
Add: Impairments in equity method investments (2) — — 26
Add: Material acquisition costs and other (3) 4 7 145
Add: Amortization of acquired intangible assets from business combinations (4) 163 165 191

Add: Impact of hyperinflation (5) 16 19 28

Add: Pension settlements (6) 8 — 5
Add/(Less): Net (gain)/loss on disposals (7) 10 (9) —
Add: Property and other losses, net (8) 13 — —
Add: Russia-Ukraine conflict impacts (9) 200 — —
Adjusted EBIT from continuing operations 1,701 1,621 1,497
Less: Income tax expense (300) (261) (187)
Less: Adjustments to income tax expense (10) (32) (51) (89)
Less: Interest expense (159) (153) (207)
Add: Interest income 24 14 22
Less: Material restructuring programs attributable to non-controlling interests — — (4)
Less: Net income attributable to non-controlling interests (10) (12) (4)
Adjusted net income from continuing operations $ 1,224 $ 1,158 $ 1,028

(1)Material restructuring programs includes restructuring and related expenses for the 2019 Bemis Integration Plan for fiscal year 2022 and 2018 Rigid Packaging Restructuring Plan and the 2019 Bemis Integration Plan for fiscal years 2021 and 2020. Refer to Note 7, "Restructuring," for more information about our restructuring activities.

34

(2)Impairments in equity method investments include the impairment charges related to other-than-temporary impairments related to the investment in AMVIG. During the fiscal year 2021, we sold our interest in AMVIG. Refer to Note 8, "Equity Method and Other Investments," for more information about our equity method investments.
(3)Includes costs associated with the Bemis transaction. Fiscal year 2021 includes a $19 million benefit related to Brazil indirect taxes resulting from a May 2021 Brazil Supreme Court decision. During fiscal year 2020, material acquisition costs and other includes $58 million amortization of Bemis acquisition related inventory fair value step-up and $88 million of Bemis transaction related costs and integration costs not qualifying as exit costs, including certain advisory, legal, audit, and audit related fees.
(4)Amortization of acquired intangible assets from business combinations includes amortization expenses related to all acquired intangible assets from past acquisitions, including $26 million of sales backlog amortization for the fiscal year 2020 from the Bemis acquisition.
(5)Impact of hyperinflation includes the adverse impact of highly inflationary accounting for subsidiaries in Argentina where the functional currency was the Argentine Peso.
(6)Pension settlements in fiscal year 2022 relate to the purchases of group annuity contracts and transfer of pension plan assets and related benefit obligations. Refer to Note 13, "Pension and Other Post-Retirement Plans," for more information. For fiscal year 2020, impact of pension settlements includes the amount of actuarial losses recognized in the consolidated statements of income related to the settlement of certain defined benefit plans, not including related tax effects.
(7)Net (gain)/loss on disposals includes an expense of $10 million from the disposal of non-core assets for fiscal year 2022. Refer to Note 11, "Fair Value Measurements," for more information. Fiscal year 2021 includes the gain realized upon the disposal of AMVIG and the loss upon disposal of other non-core businesses not part of material restructuring programs. Refer to Note 8, "Equity Method and Other Investments," for further information on the disposal of AMVIG and Note 5, "Divestitures," for more information about our other disposals.
(8)Property and other losses, net includes property and related business losses primarily associated with the destruction of our Durban, South Africa facility during general civil unrest in July 2021, net of insurance recovery.
(9)Russia-Ukraine conflict impacts include $138 million of impairment charges, $57 million of restructuring and related expenses, and $5 million of other expenses for fiscal year 2022. Refer to Note 4,"Restructuring, Impairment, and Related Expenses, Net," and Note 7, "Restructuring," for further information.
(10)Net tax impact on items (1) through (9) above.

Reconciliation of Net Debt

    A reconciliation of total debt to net debt at June 30, 2022 and 2021 is as follows:

------------------------------------ ------------- ----- ------------- ----- - -----
($ in millions) June 30, 2022 June 30, 2021
Current portion of long-term debt $ 14 $ 5
Short-term debt 136 98
Long-term debt, less current portion 6,340 6,186
Total debt 6,490 6,289
Less cash and cash equivalents 775 850
Net debt $ 5,715 $ 5,439

35

Supplemental Guarantor Information

    Amcor plc, along with certain wholly owned subsidiary guarantors, guarantee the following senior notes issued by the wholly owned subsidiaries, Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. and Amcor UK Finance plc.

•4.000% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2025 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc.
•3.100% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2026 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc.
•3.625% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2026 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc.
•4.500% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2028 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc.
•2.630% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2030 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc.
•2.690% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2031 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc.
•1.125% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2027 of Amcor UK Finance plc

    The six notes issued by Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. are guaranteed by its parent entity Amcor plc and the subsidiary guarantors Amcor Pty Ltd, Amcor Finance (USA), Inc., and Amcor UK Finance plc. The note issued by Amcor UK Finance plc is guaranteed by its parent entity, Amcor plc and the subsidiary guarantors Amcor Pty Ltd, Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc., and Amcor Finance (USA), Inc.

    On June 30, 2022, Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. and Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. entered into supplemental indentures governing Amcor Finance (USA), Inc.'s 3.625% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2026 and 4.500% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2028 relating to the substitution of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. for Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. and the assumption by Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. of the covenants of Amcor Finance (USA), Inc in the indenture and the securities. Both Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. and Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. remain as guarantors of the 3.625% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2026 and 4.500% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2028.

    All guarantors fully, unconditionally, and irrevocably guarantee, on a joint and several basis, to each holder of the notes, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and any premium and interest on, such note and all other amounts payable, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of the notes and related indenture. The obligations of the applicable guarantors under their guarantees will be limited as necessary to recognize certain defenses generally available to guarantors (including those that relate to fraudulent conveyance or transfer, voidable preference, financial assistance, corporate purpose, or similar laws) under applicable law. The guarantees will be unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the guarantors and will rank equally with all existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated debt of each guarantor. None of our other subsidiaries guarantee such notes. The issuers and guarantors conduct large parts of their operations through other subsidiaries of Amcor plc.

    Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. is incorporated in Missouri in the United States, Amcor UK Finance plc is incorporated in England and Wales, United Kingdom, and the guarantors are incorporated under the laws of Jersey, Australia, the United States, and England and Wales and, therefore, insolvency proceedings with respect to the issuers and guarantors could proceed under, and be governed by, among others, Jersey, Australian, United States, or English insolvency law, as the case may be, if either issuer or any guarantor defaults on its obligations under the applicable Notes or Guarantees, respectively.

    Set forth below is the summarized financial information of the combined Obligor Group made up of Amcor plc (as parent guarantor), Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. and Amcor UK Finance plc (as subsidiary issuers of the notes and guarantors of each other’s notes), and Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. and Amcor Pty Ltd (as the remaining subsidiary guarantors).

36

Basis of Preparation

 The following summarized financial information is presented for the parent, issuer, and guarantor subsidiaries ("Obligor Group") on a combined basis after elimination of intercompany transactions between entities in the combined group and amounts related to investments in any subsidiary that is a non-guarantor.

 This information is not intended to present the financial position or results of operations of the combined group of companies in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

Statement of Income for Obligor Group
(in millions)

----------------------------------------------------- ---- -----
For the year ended June 30, 2022
Net sales - external $ 1,092
Net sales - to subsidiaries outside the Obligor Group 11
Total net sales $ 1,103

Gross profit 190

Net income (1) $ 399

Net income attributable to non-controlling interests —

Net income attributable to Obligor Group $ 399

(1)Includes $648 million of net intercompany income mainly attributable to intercompany dividends and intercompany interest income.

Balance Sheet for Obligor Group
(in millions)

----------------------------------------------------------------------- ------ ------
As of June 30, 2022
Assets
Current assets - external $ 1,254
Current assets - due from subsidiaries outside the Obligor Group 83
Total current assets 1,337
Non-current assets - external 1,396
Non-current assets - due from subsidiaries outside the Obligor Group 10,978
Total non-current assets 12,374
Total assets $ 13,711
Liabilities
Current liabilities - external $ 2,014
Current liabilities - due to subsidiaries outside the Obligor Group 23
Total current liabilities 2,037
Non-current liabilities - external 6,456
Non-current liabilities - due to subsidiaries outside the Obligor Group 11,255
Total non-current liabilities 17,711
Total liabilities $ 19,748

37

Liquidity and Capital Resources

    We finance our business primarily through cash flows provided by operating activities, borrowings from banks, and proceeds from issuances of debt and equity. We periodically review our capital structure and liquidity position in light of market conditions, expected future cash flows, potential funding requirements for debt refinancing, capital expenditures and acquisitions, the cost of capital, sensitivity analyses reflecting downside scenarios, the impact on our financial metrics and credit ratings, and our ease of access to funding sources.

    The COVID-19 pandemic and geopolitical tensions have not materially impacted our liquidity position, current and expected cash flows from operating activities, or available cash. We believe that our cash flows provided by operating activities, together with borrowings available under our credit facilities and access to the commercial paper market, backstopped by our bank debt facilities, will continue to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operations, capital expenditures, and other commitments, including dividends and purchases of our ordinary shares and CHESS Depositary Instruments under authorized share repurchase programs, into the foreseeable future.

Overview

--------------------------------------------------- ------------------- ----- ---- ------- - -----
 Year Ended June 30,
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,526 $ 1,461
Net cash (used in)/provided by investing activities (527) (233)
Net cash used in financing activities (891) (1,179)

Cash Flow Overview

 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities

    Net cash inflows provided by operating activities increased by $65 million, or by 4%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. This increase was primarily due to higher net income, adjusted for non-cash items, in fiscal year 2022, partially offset by working capital outflows compared with fiscal year 2021. The variance in "Other, net" within net cash inflows provided by operating activities is primarily attributed to the timing of tax payments between periods.

 Net Cash (Used in)/Provided by Investing Activities

    Net cash outflows from investing activities increased by $294 million, or by 126%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. This increase was primarily due to higher disposal proceeds from the disposal of AMVIG, the European hospital supplies business and other non-core businesses in fiscal year 2021 and higher capital expenditures in fiscal year 2022.

    Capital expenditures were $527 million for fiscal year 2022, an increase of $59 million compared to $468 million for fiscal year 2021. The increase in capital expenditures was primarily due to the increased capital spending in the Flexibles segment.

 Net Cash Used in Financing Activities

    Net cash flows used in financing activities decreased by $288 million, or by 24%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. This decrease is primarily due to higher cash net debt drawdowns compared with fiscal year 2021, partially offset by higher share buybacks and on-market purchases of own shares in fiscal year 2022.

Net Debt

    We borrow from financial institutions and debt investors in the form of bank overdrafts, bank loans, corporate bonds, unsecured notes, and commercial paper. We have a mixture of fixed and floating interest rates and use interest rate swaps to provide further flexibility in managing the interest cost of borrowings.

    Short-term debt consists of bank debt with a duration of less than 12 months and bank overdrafts which are classified as current due to the short-term nature of the borrowings, except where we have the ability and intent to refinance and as such extend the debt beyond 12 months. The current portion of long-term debt consists of debt amounts repayable within a year after the balance sheet date.

38

    Our primary bank debt facilities and notes are unsecured and subject to negative pledge arrangements limiting the amount of secured indebtedness we can incur to 10.0% of our total tangible assets, subject to some exceptions and variations by facility. In addition, the covenants of the bank debt facilities require us to maintain a leverage ratio not higher than 3.9 times. The negative pledge arrangements and the financial covenants are defined in the related debt agreements. As of June 30, 2022, we were in compliance with all applicable covenants under our bank debt facilities.

    Our net debt as of June 30, 2022 and June 30, 2021 was $5.7 billion and $5.4 billion, respectively.

Available Financing

    As of June 30, 2022, we had undrawn credit facilities available in the amount of $1.4 billion. Our senior facilities are available to fund working capital, growth capital expenditures, and refinancing obligations and are provided to us by two bank syndicates. These facilities mature in April 2025 and April 2027, respectively, and the revolving tranches have two 12-month options available to management to extend the maturity date.

    As of June 30, 2022, the revolving senior bank debt facilities had an aggregate limit of $3.8 billion, of which $2.4 billion had been drawn (inclusive of amounts drawn under commercial paper programs reducing the overall balance of available senior facilities). On April 26, 2022, we terminated the previously existing senior bank debt facilities, and simultaneously, we entered into new three- and five-year syndicated facility agreements providing an aggregate limit of $3.8 billion. Subject to certain conditions, we can request the total commitment level under each agreement to be increased by up to $500 million. For further information, refer to Note 14, "Debt."

    On May 17, 2022, we issued U.S. dollar notes with a principal amount of $500 million and a contractual maturity in May 2025. The notes pay a coupon of 4.00% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears.

    On December 15, 2021, we redeemed U.S. private placement notes of a principal amount of $275 million at maturity. The notes carried an interest rate of 5.95%.

    On July 15, 2021, we redeemed U.S. dollar notes with a principal amount of $400 million that had a contractual maturity of October 15, 2021 and carried an interest rate of 4.50%.

Dividend Payments

    In fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020, we paid $732 million, $742 million, and $761 million, respectively, in dividends.

Credit Rating

    Our capital structure and financial practices have earned us investment grade credit ratings from two internationally recognized credit rating agencies. These investment grade credit ratings are important to our ability to issue debt at favorable rates of interest, for various terms, and from a diverse range of markets that are highly liquid, including European and U.S. debt capital markets and from global financial institutions.

Share Repurchases

    On August 17, 2021, our Board of Directors approved a $400 million buyback of ordinary shares and CHESS Depositary Instruments ("CDIs"). In addition, on February 1, 2022, our Board of Directors approved an additional $200 million buyback of ordinary shares and CDIs. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, we repurchased approximately $600 million, excluding transaction costs, or 49 million shares. The shares repurchased were canceled upon repurchase. Additionally, on August 17, 2022, our Board of Directors approved a further $400 million buyback of ordinary shares and/or CDIs in the next twelve months.

    We had cash outflows of $143 million, $8 million, and $67 million for the purchase of our shares in the open market during fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively, as treasury shares to satisfy the vesting and exercises of share-based compensation awards. As of June 30, 2022, 2021, and 2020, we held treasury shares at cost of $18 million, $29 million, and $67 million, representing 2 million, 3 million, and 7 million shares, respectively.

39

Material Cash Requirements

     Amcor’s material cash requirements for future periods from known contractual obligations are included below. We expect to fund these cash requirements primarily through cash flows provided by operating activities, borrowings from banks, and proceeds from issuances of debt and equity. These amounts reflect material cash requirements for which we are contractually committed.

•Debt obligations: Refer to Note 14, “Debt” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information about our debt obligations and the related timing of these expected payments.
•Interest payments: Refer to Note 14, “Debt” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information about our interest payments and the related timing of the expected payments.
•Operating and finance leases: Refer to Note 15, “Leases” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information about our lease obligations and the related timing of the expected payments.
•Employee benefit plan obligations: Refer to Note 13, “Pension and Other Post-Retirement Plans” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information about our employee benefit plan obligations and the related timing of the expected payments.
•Capital expenditures: As of June 30, 2022, we have $223 million in committed capital expenditures for the fiscal year 2023.
•Other purchase obligations: Amcor has other purchase obligations, including commitments to purchase a specified minimum amount of goods, inclusive of raw materials, utilities, and other. These obligations are legally binding and non-cancellable. Where we are unable to determine the periods in which these obligations could be payable under these contracts, we present the cash requirement in the earliest period in which the minimum obligation could be payable. The estimated future cash outlays are approximately $1.6 billion, $550 million, $500 million, $300 million, and $100 million in fiscal years 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026, and 2027, respectively.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

 Other than as described under "Material Cash Requirements" as of June 30, 2022, we had no significant off-balance sheet contractual obligations or other commitments.

Liquidity Risk and Outlook

    Liquidity risk arises from the possibility that we might encounter difficulty in settling our debts or otherwise meeting our obligations related to financial liabilities. We manage liquidity risk centrally and such management involves maintaining available funding and ensuring that we have access to an adequate amount of committed credit facilities. Due to the dynamic nature of our business, the aim is to maintain flexibility within our funding structure through the use of bank overdrafts, bank loans, corporate bonds, unsecured notes, and commercial paper. The following guidelines are used to manage our liquidity risk:

•maintaining minimum undrawn committed liquidity of at least $200 million that can be drawn at short notice;
•regularly performing a comprehensive analysis of all cash inflows and outflows in relation to operational, investing, and financing activities;
•generally using tradable instruments only in highly liquid markets;
•maintaining a senior credit investment grade rating with a reputable independent rating agency;
•managing credit risk related to financial assets;
•monitoring the duration of long-term debt;
•only investing surplus cash with major financial institutions; and
•to the extent practicable, spreading the maturity dates of long-term debt facilities.

    In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022, we terminated our 3-, 4-, and 5-year syndicated facility agreements. The three facility agreements collectively provided $3.8 billion of credit facilities. On the same day, we entered into three- and five-year syndicated facility agreements that each provide a revolving credit facility of $1.9 billion, $3.8 billion in total. The facilities are unsecured and have contractual maturities in April 2025 and April 2027, respectively. The agreements include customary terms and conditions for a syndicated facility of this nature, and the revolving tranches have two 12-month options available to management to extend the maturity date.

    As of June 30, 2022 and 2021, an aggregate principal amount of $2.4 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, was drawn under commercial paper programs. However, such programs are backstopped by committed bank syndicated loan facilities with maturities in April 2025 ($1.9 billion), and April 2027 ($1.9 billion), with an option to extend, under which we had $1.4 billion in unused capacity remaining as of June 30, 2022.

40

    We expect long-term future funding needs to primarily relate to refinancing and servicing our outstanding financial liabilities maturing as outlined above and to finance our capital expenditure and payments for acquisitions that may be completed. We expect to continue to fund our long-term business needs on the same basis as in the past, i.e., partially through the cash flow provided by operating activities available to the business and management of the capital of the business, in particular through issuance of commercial paper and debt securities on a regular basis. We decide on discretionary growth capital expenditures and acquisitions individually based on, among other factors, the return on investment after related financing costs and the payback period of required upfront cash investments in light of our mid-term liquidity planning covering a period of four years post the current fiscal year. Our long-term access to liquidity depends on both our results of operations and on the availability of funding in financial markets.

41

Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments

    Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to retirement benefits, intangible assets, goodwill, and expected future performance of operations. Our estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

 We believe the following are critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

•the calculation of annual pension costs and related assets and liabilities;
•valuation of intangible assets and goodwill;
•calculation of deferred taxes and uncertain tax positions; and
•valuation of assets and liabilities held for sale.

Pension Costs

    Approximately 90% of our principal defined benefit plans are closed to new entrants and future accruals. The accounting for defined benefit pension plans requires us to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of the pension plans on our balance sheet. A substantial portion of our pension amounts relates to our defined benefit plans in the United States, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Net periodic pension cost recorded in fiscal year 2022 was $12 million, compared to pension cost of $15 million in fiscal year 2021 and $10 million in fiscal year 2020. We expect net periodic pension cost before the effect of income taxes for fiscal year 2023 to be approximately $9 million.

    For our sponsored plans, the relevant accounting guidance requires that management make certain assumptions relating to the long-term rate of return on plan assets, discount rates used to determine the present value of future obligations and expenses, salary inflation rates, mortality rates, and other assumptions. We believe that the accounting estimates related to our pension plans are critical accounting estimates because they are highly susceptible to change from period to period based on the performance of plan assets, actuarial valuations, market conditions, and contracted benefit changes. The selection of assumptions is based on historical trends and known economic and market conditions at the time of valuation, as well as independent studies of trends performed by our actuaries. However, actual results may differ substantially from the estimates that were based on the critical assumptions.

    The amount by which the fair value of plan assets differs from the projected benefit obligation of a pension plan must be recorded on the consolidated balance sheets as an asset, in the case of an overfunded plan, or as a liability, in the case of an underfunded plan. The gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise but are not recognized as components of pension cost are recorded as a component of other comprehensive income/(loss). Pension plan liabilities are revalued annually, or when an event occurs that requires remeasurement, based on updated assumptions and information about the individuals covered by the plan. Accumulated actuarial gains and losses in excess of a 10 percent corridor and the prior service cost are amortized on a straight-line basis from the date recognized over the average remaining service period of active participants or over the average life expectancy for plans with significant inactive participants. The service costs related to defined benefits are included in operating income. The other components of net benefit cost are presented in the consolidated statements of income separately from the service cost component and outside operating income.

    We review annually the discount rate used to calculate the present value of pension plan liabilities. The discount rate used at each measurement date is set based on a high-quality corporate bond yield curve, derived based on bond universe information sourced from reputable third-party indexes, data providers, and rating agencies. In countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds, we have used a government bond approach to set the discount rate. Additionally, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is derived for each benefit plan by considering the expected future long-term return assumption for each individual asset class. A single long-term return assumption is then derived for each plan based upon the plan's target asset allocation.

42

Pension Assumptions Sensitivity Analysis

 The following chart depicts the sensitivity of estimated fiscal year 2023 pension expense to incremental changes in the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on assets.

--------------------------------- --------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- --------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ---
Discount Rate Total Increase (Decrease) to Pension Expense from Current Assumption Rate of Return on Plan Assets Total Increase (Decrease) to Pension Expense from Current Assumption
 (in $ millions) (in $ millions)
+25 basis points 1 +25 basis points (3)
3.80 percent (current assumption) — 4.42 percent (current assumption) —
-25 basis points (1) -25 basis points 3

Intangible Assets and Goodwill

    Goodwill represents the excess of the aggregate purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired, including intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortized but is instead tested annually or when events and circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. Our reporting units each contain goodwill that is assessed for potential impairment. All goodwill is assigned to a reporting unit, which is defined as an operating segment, at the time of each acquisition based on the relative fair value of the reporting unit. We have six reporting units, of which five are included in our Flexibles Segment. The other reporting unit that is also a reportable segment is Rigid Packaging.

    Goodwill for our reporting units is reviewed for impairment annually in the fourth quarter of each year or whenever events and circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred during the year. When the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we recognize an impairment loss equal to the difference between the carrying value and estimated fair value of the reporting unit, adjusted for any tax benefits, limited to the amount of the carrying value of goodwill.

    In performing our impairment analysis, we may elect to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether a quantitative test is necessary. If we determine that a quantitative test is necessary, or elect to perform a quantitative test instead of the qualitative test, we derive an estimate of fair values for each of our reporting units using income approaches. The most significant assumptions used in the determination of the estimated fair value of the reporting units are revenue growth, projected operating income growth, terminal values, and discount rates.

    Our estimates associated with the goodwill impairment tests are considered critical due to the amount of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and the judgment required in determining fair value amounts, including projected future cash flows. Judgment is used in assessing whether goodwill should be tested more frequently for impairment than annually. Factors such as a significant decrease in expected net earnings, adverse equity market conditions, and other external events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and the Russia-Ukraine conflict, may result in the need for more frequent assessments.

    Intangible assets consist primarily of purchased customer relationships, technology, trademarks, and software and are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which range from one to 20 years. We review these intangible assets for impairment as changes in circumstances or the occurrence of events suggest that the remaining value is not recoverable. The test for impairment requires us to make estimates about fair value, most of which are based on projected future cash flows and discount rates. These estimates and projections require judgments as to future events, conditions, and amounts of future cash flows.

Deferred Taxes and Uncertain Tax Positions

    We deal with uncertainties and judgments in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. The determination of uncertain tax positions is based on an evaluation of whether the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position taken or expected to be taken in the tax return will be sustained on tax audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The recognized tax benefits are measured as the largest benefit of having a more likely than not likelihood of being sustained upon settlement. Significant estimates are required in determining such uncertain tax positions and related income tax expense and benefit. Additionally, we are also required to assess the likelihood of recovering deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income which might result in the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, including operating loss, capital loss, and tax credit carryforwards if we do not reach

43

the more likely than not threshold based on all available evidence. Significant judgments and estimates, including expected future performance of operations and taxable earnings and the feasibility of tax planning strategies, are required in determining the need for and amount of valuation allowances for deferred tax assets. If actual results differ from these estimates or there are future changes to tax laws or statutory tax rates, we may need to adjust valuation allowances or tax liabilities, which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations.

Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale

    Disposal groups held for sale are assessed for impairment by comparing their fair values less cost to sell to their carrying values. The fair values of disposal groups held for sale are estimated using accepted valuation techniques which include earnings multiples, discounted cash flows, and indicative bids. A number of significant estimates and assumptions are involved in the application of these techniques, including the forecasting of sales, expenses, and a variety of other factors. We consider historical experience, guidance received from third parties, and all other information available at the time the estimates are made to derive fair value. However, the fair value that is ultimately realized upon the divestiture of a business may significantly differ from the estimated fair value recognized in our consolidated financial statements, especially for disposal groups located within countries at war.

New Accounting Pronouncements

 Refer to Note 3, "New Accounting Guidance" of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information about new accounting pronouncements.

44

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[See Note 2]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer 66 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web a...

[Refer to Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97

[Refer to Note 20]:
(20) (16) (10) Income before income taxes 4 3 3 Income tax expense (16) (13) (7) Net income -- -- -- Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest $ (16) $ (13) $ (7) Net income attributable to Aptiv Total reclassifications for the year $ 49 $ (34) $ (13) (1)These accumulated other comprehensive loss components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost (see Note 12. Pension Benefits for additional details). 17. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES Cash Flow Hedges Aptiv is exposed to market risk, such as fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and changes in interest rates, which may result in cash flow risks. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, Aptiv aggregates the exposures on a consolidated basis to take advantage of natural offsets. For exposures that are not offset within its operations, Aptiv enters into various derivative transactions pursuant to its risk management policies, which prohibit holding or issuing derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes, and designation of derivative instruments is performed on a transaction basis to support hedge accounting. The changes in fair value of these hedging instruments are offset in part or in whole by corresponding changes in the fair value or cash flows of the underlying exposures being hedged. Aptiv assesses the initial and ongoing effectiveness of its hedging relationships in accordance with its documented policy. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had the following outstanding notional amounts related to commodity and foreign currency forward and option contracts designated as cash flow hedges that were entered into to hedge forecasted exposures: --------- --------------- --------------- ------ -------------------------------------------- - --- Commodity Quantity Hedged Unit of Measure Notional Amount (Approximate USD Equivalent) (in thousands) (in millions) Copper 81,578 pounds $ 355 103 --------------------- --------------- ------...

[refer to Note 4]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[refer to Note 7]:
(7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27 net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity under GAAP and, accordingly, should not be considered as alternatives to net income or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of operating performance or liquidity. The table below pro...

[Refer to Note 8]:
Note 8. Acquisitions Fitbit In January 2021, we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, a leading wearables brand for $2.1 billion. The addition of Fitbit to Google Services is expected to help spur innovation in wearable devices. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at fair value. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. The purchase price was attributed to $440 million cash acquired, $590 million of intangible assets, $1.2 billion of goodwill and $92 million of net liabilities assumed. Goodwill was recorded in the Google Services segment and primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Other Acquisitions During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $885 million, net of cash acquired, of which the total amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $118 million. Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate. 74 ----------------- ------------- Alphabet Inc.

[Refer to Note 7]:
(7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27 net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity under GAAP and, accordingly, should not be considered as alternatives to net income or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of operating performance or liquidity. The table below pro...

[Refer to Note 8]:
Note 8. Acquisitions Fitbit In January 2021, we closed the assumed were recorded at fair value. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. The purchase price was attributed to $440 million cash acquired, $590 million of intangible Inc.

[Refer to Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[Refer to Note 11]:
Note 11. Stockholders' Equity Preferred Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized 100 million shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issuable in series. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, no shares were issued or outstanding. Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized three classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes per share. Class C capital stock has no voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. Share Repurchases In April 2021, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $50.0 billion of its Class C stock. In July 2021, the Alphabet board approved an amendment to the April 2021 authorization, permitting the company to repurchase both Class A and Class C shares in a manner deemed in the best interest of the company and its stockholders, taking into account the economic cost and prevailing market conditions, including the relative trading prices and volumes of the Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2021, $17.4 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases under the amended authorization. In accordance with the authorizations of the Board of Directors of Alphabet, during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, we repurchased and subsequently retired 21.5 million and 20.3 million aggregate shares for $31.1 billion and $50.3 billion, respectively. Of the aggregate amount repurchased and subsequently retired during 2021, 1.2 million shares were Class A stock for $3.4 billion. Stock Split E...

[Refer to Note 8]:
Note 8. Acquisitions Fitbit In January 2021, we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, a leading wearables brand for $2.1 billion. The addition of Fitbit to Google Services is expected to help spur innovation in wearable devices. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at fair value. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. The purchase price was attributed to $440 million cash acquired, $590 million of intangible assets, $1.2 billion of goodwill and $92 million of net liabilities assumed. Goodwill was recorded in the Google Services segment and primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Other Acquisitions During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $885 million, net of cash acquired, of which the total amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $118 million. Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate. 74 ----------------- ------------- Alphabet Inc.

[Refer to Note 4]:
(4)As discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in May 2021, we completed the acquisition of General Finance Corporation ("General Finance"), which was a leading provider of mobile storage equipment and modular office space. Prior to the General Finance acquisition, we did not rent material amounts of such equipment. (5)As discussed below (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook"), North American equipment rental industry revenue is based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"). Subsequent to our prior disclosure of 2020 industry information, the ARA decreased its estimate of the size of the North American equipment rental industry. As a result of this change, relative to our prior disclosures, our market share for 2020 increased and the size of the 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased. COVID-19 COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. Uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of existing and emerging variant strains of COVID-19 on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy. Uncertainty also remains regarding the length of time it will take for the COVID-19 pandemic to ultimately subside, which will be impacted by the effectiveness of vaccines against COVID-19 (including against emerging variant strains), and by measures that may in the future be implemented to protect public health. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2021 and 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we also implemented a detailed COVID-19 response plan, which is explained in more detail in "Management's Discussion and Anal...

[refer to Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97

[Refer to Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97

[Refer to Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97

[Refer to Note 15]:
Note 15. Financial Instruments and Risk Management 63

[Refer to Note 13]:
Note 13 - Liabilities, Commitments and Contingencies 92

[Refer to Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. The fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management's best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date. Fair values associated with the net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill were pending finalization as of the reporting date. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------------ --- - (dollars in millions) Amount Weighted Average Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. (2) Non-deductible for tax-purposes. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Frame.io acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. 70 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[PART II

Item 5]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37

[Part II, Item 8]:
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29

[Part II, Item 7]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on our credit rating profile.

    In addition, a significant number of our operating subsidiaries are not guarantors of our indebtedness. In the event that any non-guarantor subsidiary becomes insolvent, liquidates, reorganizes, dissolves, or otherwise winds up, the assets of such subsidiary will be used to satisfy the claims of its creditors. The non-guarantor subsidiaries have no direct obligations in respect of our indebtedness and therefore, a direct claim against any non-guarantor subsidiary and any claims to enforce payment on our indebtedness will be structurally subordinated to all of the claims of the creditors of our non-guarantor subsidiaries.

Exchange Rates — We are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk.

    We are subject to foreign exchange rate risk, both transactional and translational, which may negatively affect our financial performance. Transactional foreign exchange exposures result from exchange rate fluctuations, including in respect of the U.S. dollar, the Euro, the Russian ruble and other currencies, including in Latin America, in which our costs are denominated, which may affect our business input costs and proceeds from product sales. Translational foreign exchange exposures result from exchange rate fluctuations in the conversion of entity functional currencies to U.S. dollars, our reporting currency, and may affect the reported value of our assets and liabilities and our income and expenses. In particular, our translational exposure may be impacted by movements in the exchange rate between the Euro, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Australian Dollar, the Chinese Yuan, and the Brazilian Real against the U.S. dollar.

    Exchange rates between transactional currencies may change rapidly due to a variety of factors. In addition, we have recognized foreign exchange losses related to the currency devaluation in Argentina and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under U.S. GAAP. See Note 2, "]:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

[" of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information regarding highly inflationary accounting.

    To the extent currency devaluation occurs across our business, we are likely to experience a lag in the timing to pass through U.S. dollar-denominated input costs across our business, which would adversely impact our margins and profitability. As such, we may be exposed to future exchange rate fluctuations, and such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our

19

reported cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations, the effect of which may be material. Our Board of Directors has approved a hedging policy to limit and manage the risk of such foreign exchange fluctuations, however, if our hedges are not effective in mitigating our foreign currency risks, if we are under-hedged, or if a hedge provider defaults on their obligations under hedging arrangements, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.

Interest Rates — Rising interest rates increase our borrowing costs on our variable rate indebtedness and could have other negative impacts.

     As of June 30, 2022, approximately fifty percent of our indebtedness was subject to variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, our debt service obligations increase on our variable rate indebtedness even though the amount borrowed remains the same. Increases in short-term interest rates will directly impact the amount of interest we pay. We manage exposure to interest rates by maintaining a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, monitoring global interest rates, and, where appropriate, entering into various derivative instruments. However, if our derivative instruments are not effective in mitigating our interest rate risk, if we are under-hedged, or if a hedge provider defaults on their obligations under hedging arrangements, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.

    In addition, rising interest rates could reduce the attractiveness of cash management programs we use, such as customer and supply chain finance programs, which could negatively impact our cash and working capital and increase our borrowings. Refer to Note 14, "]:
Note 19. Recent Accounting Pronouncements 131 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Kinder Morgan, Inc. Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2021 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO. Basis for Opinions The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to ex...

[Refer to "Item 3. - Legal Proceedings"]:
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 46

[" in this Item 5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not deemed to be "]:
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37

['s total shareholder return and relative performance against comparable companies both in Australia and internationally. As of June 30, 2022, the Company presents a transition total shareholder return graph that incorporates both Peer Group and International Packaging Peer Group.

---------------------------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ------------- ------ - ------ - ------
 June 11, 2019 June 30, 2019 June 30, 2020 June 30, 2021 June 30, 2022
Amcor plc $ 100.00 $ 102.77 $ 95.68 $ 111.82 $ 126.13
S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 107.05 $ 115.08 $ 162.03 $ 144.83
S&P/ASX 200 $ 100.00 $ 102.08 $ 93.59 $ 131.41 $ 114.86
Peer Group $ 100.00 $ 100.12 $ 104.54 $ 124.79 $ 126.34
International Packaging Peer Group $ 100.00 $ 101.55 $ 91.28 $ 135.67 $ 114.23

26

    The Peer Group consists of Ansell Limited, AptarGroup, Inc., Avery Dennison Corporation, Ball Corporation, Berry Global Group, Inc., Brambles Limited, Coles Group Limited, Conagra Brands Inc., Crown Holdings, Inc., Danone SA, General Mills Inc., Graphic Packaging Holding Co, Huhtamaki Oyj, International Paper Company, Johnson & Johnson, The Kraft Heinz Company, Mondelez International, Inc., Nestlé S.A., O-I Glass, Inc., Orora Limited, Pepsico, Inc., The Procter & Gamble Company, Sealed Air Corporation, Silgan Holdings Inc., Sonoco Products Company, Treasury Wine Estates Limited, Unilever PLC, Wesfarmers Limited, WestRock Company, and Woolworths Group Limited.

    The International Packaging Peer Group consists of AptarGroup, Inc., Ball Corporation, Berry Global Group, Inc., CCL Industries Inc., Crown Holdings, Inc., Graphic Packaging Holding Company, Huhtamaki Oyj, International Paper Company, Mayr-Melnhof Karton AG, O-I Glass, Inc., Sealed Air Corporation, Silgan Holdings Inc., Sonoco Products Company, and WestRock Company. The International Packaging Peer Group has been replaced by the Peer Group and will not be published in future Annual Reports on Form 10-K.

27

Item 7. - Management']:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

[" Note 6, "]:
(6)This reflects write-offs of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets. As discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements, the 2020 charges primarily reflect the discontinuation of certain equipment programs, and were not related to COVID-19. (7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27 net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adj...

[" and Note 7, "]:
(7)Reflects the difference between the net carrying amount and the total purchase price of the redeemed notes. For additional information, see "Results of Operations-Other costs/(income)-Interest expense, net" below. EBITDA GAAP Reconciliations. EBITDA represents the sum of net income, provision for income taxes, interest expense, net, depreciation of rental equipment and non-rental depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA plus the sum of the merger related costs, restructuring charge, stock compensation expense, net, and the impact of the fair value mark-up of acquired fleet. These items are excluded from adjusted EBITDA internally when evaluating our operating performance and for strategic planning and forecasting purposes, and allow investors to make a more meaningful comparison between our core business operating results over different periods of time, as well as with those of other similar companies. The 27 net income and adjusted EBITDA margins represent net income or adjusted EBITDA divided by total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Company's results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the accompanying reconciliations, provide useful information about operating performance and period-over-period growth, and provide additional information that is useful for evaluating the operating performance of our core business without regard to potential distortions. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA help investors gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting our ongoing cash earnings, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. However, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not measures of financial performance or liquidity under GAAP and, accordingly, should not be considered as alternatives to net income or cash flow from operating activities as indicators of operating performance or liquidity. The table below pro...

['s 3.625% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2026 and 4.500% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2028 relating to the substitution of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. for Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. and the assumption by Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. of the covenants of Amcor Finance (USA), Inc in the indenture and the securities. Both Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. and Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. remain as guarantors of the 3.625% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2026 and 4.500% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2028.

    All guarantors fully, unconditionally, and irrevocably guarantee, on a joint and several basis, to each holder of the notes, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and any premium and interest on, such note and all other amounts payable, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of the notes and related indenture. The obligations of the applicable guarantors under their guarantees will be limited as necessary to recognize certain defenses generally available to guarantors (including those that relate to fraudulent conveyance or transfer, voidable preference, financial assistance, corporate purpose, or similar laws) under applicable law. The guarantees will be unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the guarantors and will rank equally with all existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated debt of each guarantor. None of our other subsidiaries guarantee such notes. The issuers and guarantors conduct large parts of their operations through other subsidiaries of Amcor plc.

    Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. is incorporated in Missouri in the United States, Amcor UK Finance plc is incorporated in England and Wales, United Kingdom, and the guarantors are incorporated under the laws of Jersey, Australia, the United States, and England and Wales and, therefore, insolvency proceedings with respect to the issuers and guarantors could proceed under, and be governed by, among others, Jersey, Australian, United States, or English insolvency law, as the case may be, if either issuer or any guarantor defaults on its obligations under the applicable Notes or Guarantees, respectively.

    Set forth below is the summarized financial information of the combined Obligor Group made up of Amcor plc (as parent guarantor), Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. and Amcor UK Finance plc (as subsidiary issuers of the notes and guarantors of each other’s notes), and Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. and Amcor Pty Ltd (as the remaining subsidiary guarantors).

36

Basis of Preparation

 The following summarized financial information is presented for the parent, issuer, and guarantor subsidiaries ("]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. The fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management's best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date. Fair values associated with the net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill were pending finalization as of the reporting date. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------------ --- - (dollars in millions) Amount Weighted Average Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. (2) Non-deductible for tax-purposes. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Frame.io acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. 70 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

["

    On May 17, 2022, we issued U.S. dollar notes with a principal amount of $500 million and a contractual maturity in May 2025. The notes pay a coupon of 4.00% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears.

    On December 15, 2021, we redeemed U.S. private placement notes of a principal amount of $275 million at maturity. The notes carried an interest rate of 5.95%.

    On July 15, 2021, we redeemed U.S. dollar notes with a principal amount of $400 million that had a contractual maturity of October 15, 2021 and carried an interest rate of 4.50%.

Dividend Payments

    In fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020, we paid $732 million, $742 million, and $761 million, respectively, in dividends.

Credit Rating

    Our capital structure and financial practices have earned us investment grade credit ratings from two internationally recognized credit rating agencies. These investment grade credit ratings are important to our ability to issue debt at favorable rates of interest, for various terms, and from a diverse range of markets that are highly liquid, including European and U.S. debt capital markets and from global financial institutions.

Share Repurchases

    On August 17, 2021, our Board of Directors approved a $400 million buyback of ordinary shares and CHESS Depositary Instruments ("]:
NOTE 17. DEBT The carrying value of our borrowings as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 were as follows: -------------------------------------------- ------------- ---- ------------- ----------------------- - ----- --- ---- ----- - --- (dollars in millions) Issuance Date Due Date Effective Interest Rate 2021 2020 1.70% 2023 Notes February 2020 February 2023 1.92% $ 500 $ 500 1.90% 2025 Notes February 2020 February 2025 2.07% 500 500 3.25% 2025 Notes January 2015 February 2025 3.67% 1,000 1,000 2.15% 2027 Notes February 2020 February 2027 2.26% 850 850 2.30% 2030 Notes February 2020 February 2030 2.69% 1,300 1,300 Total debt outstanding, at par $ 4,150 $ 4,150 Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs (27) (33) Carrying value of long-term debt $ 4,123 $ 4,117 89 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Senior Notes In January 2015, we issued $1 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2025. The related discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2023, $500 million of senior notes due February 1, 2025, $850 million of senior notes due February 1, 2027, and $1.30 billion of senior notes due February 1, 2030. Our total proceeds of approximately $3.14 billion, net of issuance discount, were used for general corporate purposes including repayment of debt instruments due in fiscal 2020. The related discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes using the effective interest method. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. Our senior notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. We may redeem the notes at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain ch...

["). In addition, on February 1, 2022, our Board of Directors approved an additional $200 million buyback of ordinary shares and CDIs. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, we repurchased approximately $600 million, excluding transaction costs, or 49 million shares. The shares repurchased were canceled upon repurchase. Additionally, on August 17, 2022, our Board of Directors approved a further $400 million buyback of ordinary shares and/or CDIs in the next twelve months.

    We had cash outflows of $143 million, $8 million, and $67 million for the purchase of our shares in the open market during fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively, as treasury shares to satisfy the vesting and exercises of share-based compensation awards. As of June 30, 2022, 2021, and 2020, we held treasury shares at cost of $18 million, $29 million, and $67 million, representing 2 million, 3 million, and 7 million shares, respectively.

39

Material Cash Requirements

     Amcor’s material cash requirements for future periods from known contractual obligations are included below. We expect to fund these cash requirements primarily through cash flows provided by operating activities, borrowings from banks, and proceeds from issuances of debt and equity. These amounts reflect material cash requirements for which we are contractually committed.

•Debt obligations: Refer to Note 14, “Debt” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information about our debt obligations and the related timing of these expected payments.
•Interest payments: Refer to Note 14, “Debt” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information about our interest payments and the related timing of the expected payments.
•Operating and finance leases: Refer to Note 15, “Leases” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information about our lease obligations and the related timing of the expected payments.
•Employee benefit plan obligations: Refer to Note 13, “Pension and Other Post-Retirement Plans” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information about our employee benefit plan obligations and the related timing of the expected payments.
•Capital expenditures: As of June 30, 2022, we have $223 million in committed capital expenditures for the fiscal year 2023.
•Other purchase obligations: Amcor has other purchase obligations, including commitments to purchase a specified minimum amount of goods, inclusive of raw materials, utilities, and other. These obligations are legally binding and non-cancellable. Where we are unable to determine the periods in which these obligations could be payable under these contracts, we present the cash requirement in the earliest period in which the minimum obligation could be payable. The estimated future cash outlays are approximately $1.6 billion, $550 million, $500 million, $300 million, and $100 million in fiscal years 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026, and 2027, respectively.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

 Other than as described under "]:
NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers ("VARs"), systems integrators ("SIs"), independent software vendors ("ISVs"), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on desktop and laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, other devices and the web, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying Consolidated Financial State...

["Item 7. - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,"]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17

["

Highly Inflationary Accounting

    We have subsidiaries in Argentina that historically had a functional currency of the Argentine Peso. As of June 30, 2018, the Argentine economy was designated as highly inflationary for accounting purposes. Accordingly, beginning July 1, 2018, we began reporting the financial results of our Argentine subsidiaries with a functional currency of the U.S. dollar. The transition to highly inflationary accounting resulted in a negative impact on monetary balances of $16 million, $19 million, and $28 million that was reflected in the consolidated statements of income for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively.

30

Results of Operations

The following is a discussion and analysis of changes in the results of operations for fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021. A discussion and analysis regarding our results of operations for fiscal year 2021 compared to fiscal year 2020 that are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K can be found in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, filed with the SEC on August 24, 2021 and incorporated by reference.

Consolidated Results of Operations

--------------------------------------------- ----- ------ ---- ----- - ------
($ in millions, except per share data) 2022 2021
Net sales $ 14,544 $ 12,861
Operating income 1,239 1,321
Operating income as a percentage of net sales 8.5 % 10.3 %

Net income attributable to Amcor plc $ 805 $ 939
Diluted Earnings Per Share $ 0.529 $ 0.602

    Net sales increased by $1,683 million, or by 13.1%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. Excluding the impact of disposed and ceased operations of $87 million, or (0.7%), negative currency impacts of $249 million, or (1.9%), and pass-through of raw material costs of $1,530 million, or 11.9%, the increase in net sales for the fiscal year 2022 was $490 million or 3.8%, driven by marginally favorable volumes of 0.4% and favorable price/mix of 3.4%.

    Net income attributable to Amcor plc decreased by $134 million, or by 14.3%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021, mainly as a result of increased restructuring, impairment, and related expenses, net of $140 million, largely due to costs related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict, and higher tax charges of $39 million, offset by increased gross profit of $88 million.

    Diluted earnings per share ("]:
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17