================================================================================
CIK: 0000858877
Company Name: CISCO SYSTEMS, INC
Filing Date: 2022-09-08
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 08:22:02
================================================================================

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview—Russia and Ukraine War” for a discussion of the impact on Cisco’s business of the on-going Russia and Ukraine war.
There can be no assurance that our operating results and financial condition will not be adversely affected by our incurrence of debt.
As of the end of fiscal 2022, we have senior unsecured notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $9.0 billion that mature at specific dates from calendar year 2023 through 2040. We have also established a commercial paper program under which we may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $10.0 billion, and we had $0.6 billion in commercial paper notes outstanding under this program as of July 30, 2022. There can be no assurance that our incurrence of this debt or any future debt will be a better means of providing liquidity to us than would our use of our existing cash resources. Further, we cannot be assured that our maintenance of this indebtedness or incurrence of future indebtedness will not adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both

25

Table of Contents
our debt and equity securities, as well as the terms upon which we may borrow under our commercial paper program or future debt issuances.
Our reputation and/or business could be negatively impacted by ESG matters and/or our reporting of such matters.
There is an increasing focus from regulators, certain investors, and other stakeholders concerning environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) matters, both in the United States and internationally. We communicate certain ESG-related initiatives, goals, and/or commitments regarding environmental matters, diversity, responsible sourcing and social investments, and other matters, in our annual Purpose Report, on our website, in our filings with the SEC, and elsewhere. These initiatives, goals, or commitments could be difficult to achieve and costly to implement. For example, in September 2021, we announced our commitment to achieve net zero across all scopes of greenhouse gas emissions by 2040, the achievement of which relies, in large part, on the accuracy of our estimates and assumptions around the enhanced power efficiency of our products, the adoption of renewable energy at customer sites, and the adoption of certain of our products and services by our customers. We could fail to achieve, or be perceived to fail to achieve, our 2040 net zero commitment or other ESG-related initiatives, goals, or commitments. In addition, we could be criticized for the timing, scope or nature of these initiatives, goals, or commitments, or for any revisions to them. To the extent that our required and voluntary disclosures about ESG matters increase, we could be criticized for the accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of such disclosures. Our actual or perceived failure to achieve our ESG-related initiatives, goals, or commitments could negatively impact our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business.
Risks Related to Intellectual Property
Our proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce.
We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, many key aspects of networking technology are governed by industrywide standards, which are usable by all market entrants. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States. Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights to the totality of the features (including aspects of products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled us to be successful.
We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others.
Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the networking field, the secrecy of some pending patents, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. Where claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage customer relationships. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a claim were brought directly against us or our customers. Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim against the customer, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. For additional information regarding our indemnification obligations, see Note 14(e) to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Further, in the

26

Table of Contents
past, third parties have made infringement and similar claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition.
We rely on the availability of third-party licenses.
Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products. There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products.
Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Privacy, and Regulatory Requirements
Cyber attacks, data breaches or malware may disrupt our operations, harm our operating results and financial condition, and damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business; and cyber attacks or data breaches on our customers’ or third-party providers’ networks, or in cloud-based services provided to, by, or enabled by us, could result in claims of liability against us, give rise to legal and/or regulatory action, damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business.
We experience cyber attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our products, services, and IT environment on a regular basis, and we anticipate continuing to be subject to such attempts as cyber attacks become increasingly sophisticated and more difficult to predict and protect against. Despite our implementation of security measures, (i) our products and services, and (ii) the servers, data centers, and cloud-based solutions on which our and third-party data is stored or processed (including servers, data centers and cloud-based solutions operated by third parties on which we rely) (collectively, our “IT environment”), are vulnerable to cyber attacks, data breaches, malware, inadvertent error, disruptions from unauthorized access, tampering or other theft or misuse, including by employees, contingent workers, malicious actors, or nation-states or their agents (which cyber attack or related activity may intensify during periods of diplomatic or armed conflict, such as the Russia and Ukraine war). Such events have caused, and in the future could result in, compromise to, or the disruption of access to, the operation of our products, services, and IT environment or those of our customers or third-party providers we rely on, or result in confidential information stored on our systems, our customers’ systems, or other third-party systems being improperly accessed, processed, disclosed not or in the future, or be lost or stolen. For example, in December 2021, multiple vulnerabilities were reported for the widely used Java logging library, Apache Log4j. We reviewed the use of this library within our products and services, its use in our enterprise IT environment, and its use by our third-party providers, and have taken steps to mitigate these vulnerabilities, including by providing security updates for affected products to our customers. We have not to date experienced a material event related to a cybersecurity matter; however, the occurrence of any such event in the future could subject us to liability to our customers, data subjects, suppliers, business partners, employees, and others, give rise to legal and/or regulatory action, could damage our reputation or could otherwise materially harm our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Efforts to limit the ability of malicious actors to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine our own security efforts are costly to implement and may not be successful. Breaches of security in our customers’ or third-party providers’ networks, in third-party products we use, or in cloud-based services provided to, by, or enabled by us, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to a vulnerability in our products or services, or a failure to maintain the digital security infrastructure or security tools that protect the integrity of our products, services, and IT environment, could, in each case, result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business.
Vulnerabilities and critical security defects, prioritization decisions regarding remedying vulnerabilities or security defects, failure of third-party providers to remedy vulnerabilities or security defects, or customers not deploying security updates in a timely manner or deciding not to upgrade products, services or solutions could result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation, or otherwise materially harm our business.
The products and services we sell to customers, and our cloud-based solutions, inevitably contain vulnerabilities or security defects which have not been remedied and cannot be disclosed without compromising security. We also make prioritization decisions in determining which vulnerabilities or security defects to fix and the timing of these fixes. Customers may also need to test security updates before they can be deployed which can delay implementation. When customers do not deploy security updates in a timely manner, or decide not to upgrade to the latest versions of our products, services or cloud-based solutions containing the security update, they may be left vulnerable. In addition, we rely on third-party providers of software and cloud-based services on which our and third-party data is stored or processed, and we cannot control the timing at which third-party providers remedy vulnerabilities, which could leave us vulnerable. Vulnerabilities and security defects, prioritization errors in remedying vulnerabilities or security defects, failure of third-party providers to remedy vulnerabilities or security defects, or

27

Table of Contents
customers not deploying security updates in a timely manner or deciding not to upgrade products, services or solutions could result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business.
Our actual or perceived failure to adequately protect personal data could result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm of business.
Global privacy and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, extensive, and complex. Compliance with these laws and regulations is difficult and costly. In addition, evolving legal requirements restricting or controlling the collection, processing, or cross-border transmission of data, including for regulation of cloud-based services, could materially affect our customers’ ability to use, and our ability to sell, our products and services. The interpretation and application of these laws in some instances is uncertain, and our legal and regulatory obligations are subject to frequent changes. For example, the European Union’s (“EU”) General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) applies to our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services offered in the EU and imposes a range of compliance obligations regarding the handling of personal data. Additionally, we are subject to California’s Consumer Privacy Act and other laws, regulations and obligations that relate to the handling of personal data. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations relating to personal data, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use, or other processing, could subject us to liability to our customers, data subjects, suppliers, business partners, employees, and others, give rise to legal and/or regulatory action, could damage our reputation or could otherwise materially harm our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed by evolving regulatory uncertainty or obligations applicable to our products and services.
Changes in regulatory requirements applicable to the industries in which we operate, in the United States and in other countries, could materially affect the sales of our products and services. In particular, economic sanctions and changes to export control requirements, have impacted and may continue to impact our ability to sell and support our products and services in certain jurisdictions. In addition, changes in telecommunications regulations could impact our service provider customers’ purchase of our products and services, and they could also impact sales of our own regulated offerings. Additional areas of uncertainty that could impact sales of our products and services include laws and regulations related to encryption technology, environmental sustainability (including climate change), human rights, product certification, and national security controls applicable to our supply chain. For example, new laws and regulations in response to climate change could result in increased energy efficiency requirements for our products and increased compliance and energy costs. Changes in regulatory requirements in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock
Our stock price may be volatile.
Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us. Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, security of our products, or significant transactions can cause changes in our stock price. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, in particular, and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our current or potential competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Additionally, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, virtually all of whom are compensated, in part, based on the performance of our stock price.

28

Table of Contents

-------- -------------------------
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

------- ----------
Item 2. Properties

Our corporate headquarters are located at an owned site in San Jose, California, in the United States of America. The locations of our headquarters by geographic segment are as follows:

------------------------- ---------------------- ---------
Americas EMEA APJC
San Jose, California, USA Amsterdam, Netherlands Singapore

In addition to our headquarters site, we own additional sites in the United States, which include facilities in the surrounding areas of San Jose, California; Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; and Richardson, Texas. We also own land for expansion in some of these locations. In addition, we lease office space in many U.S. locations.
Outside the United States our operations are conducted primarily in leased sites. Other significant sites (in addition to the two non-U.S. headquarters locations) are located in Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, Germany, India, Japan, Mexico, Poland, and the United Kingdom.
We believe that our existing facilities, including both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.

------- -----------------
Item 3. Legal Proceedings

For a description of pending legal proceedings in which we are involved, see Note 14 “Commitments and Contingencies - (f) Legal Proceedings” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

------- -----------------------
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.

29

Table of Contents
PART II

------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

(a)Cisco common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol CSCO. There were 31,502 registered stockholders as of September 2, 2022.
(b)None.
(c)Issuer purchases of equity securities (in millions, except per-share amounts):

------------------------------ ----------------------------- --------------------------- - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -- - ------
Period TotalNumber ofSharesPurchased Average Price Paidper Share Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part ofPublicly AnnouncedPlans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of SharesThat May Yet Be PurchasedUnder the Plans or Programs
May 1, 2022 to May 28, 2022 21 $ 44.36 21 $ 16,671
May 29, 2022 to June 25, 2022 14 $ 44.29 14 $ 16,045
June 26, 2022 to July 30, 2022 19 $ 43.44 19 $ 15,205
Total 54 $ 44.02 54

On September 13, 2001, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 30, 2022, the remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program is approximately $15.2 billion with no termination date.
For the majority of restricted stock units granted, the number of shares issued on the date the restricted stock units vest is net of shares withheld to meet applicable tax withholding requirements. Although these withheld shares are not issued or considered common stock repurchases under our stock repurchase program and therefore are not included in the preceding table, they are treated as common stock repurchases in our financial statements as they reduce the number of shares that would have been issued upon vesting (see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

30

Table of Contents
Stock Performance Graph
The information contained in this Stock Performance Graph section shall not be deemed to be “soliciting material” or “filed” or incorporated by reference in future filings with the SEC, or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), except to the extent that Cisco specifically incorporates it by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
The following graph shows a five-year comparison of the cumulative total stockholder return on Cisco common stock with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 Index, and the S&P Information Technology Index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in the Company’s common stock and in each of the indexes (with the reinvestment of all dividends) on the date specified. Stockholder returns over the indicated period are based on historical data and should not be considered indicative of future stockholder returns.
Comparison of 5-Year Cumulative Total Return Among Cisco Systems, Inc.,
the S&P 500 Index, and the S&P Information Technology Index

-------------------------- --------- ------ --------- --------- ------ --------- --------- ------ --------- - ------ - ------ - ------
 July 2017 July 2018 July 2019 July 2020 July 2021 July 2022
Cisco Systems, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 139.41 $ 190.26 $ 161.16 $ 198.43 $ 167.33
S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 116.25 $ 127.33 $ 138.01 $ 191.61 $ 182.72
S&P Information Technology $ 100.00 $ 129.71 $ 151.19 $ 195.65 $ 287.65 $ 271.80

------- ----------
Item 6. [Reserved]

31

Table of Contents

------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “momentum,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “continues,” “endeavors,” “strives,” “may,” variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, future responses to and effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those under “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors,” and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.

OVERVIEW
Cisco designs and sells a broad range of technologies that power the Internet. We are integrating our platforms across networking, security, collaboration, applications and the cloud. These platforms are designed to help our customers manage more users, devices and things connecting to their networks. This will enable us to provide customers with a highly secure, intelligent platform for their digital business.
A summary of our results is as follows (in millions, except percentages and per-share amounts):

-------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------ ------------- ---- -------- ------ ------------- ------------- ---- -------- - ------ - ----- ------ --- ---- -
 Three Months Ended Years Ended
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 Variance July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 Variance
Revenue $ 13,102 $ 13,126 — % $ 51,557 $ 49,818 3 %
Gross margin percentage 61.3 % 63.6 % (2.3) pts 62.5 % 64.0 % (1.5) pts
Research and development $ 1,682 $ 1,713 (2) % $ 6,774 $ 6,549 3 %
Sales and marketing $ 2,349 $ 2,448 (4) % $ 9,085 $ 9,259 (2) %
General and administrative $ 489 $ 521 (6) % $ 2,101 $ 2,152 (2) %
Total R&D, sales and marketing, general and administrative $ 4,520 $ 4,682 (3) % $ 17,960 $ 17,960 — %
Total as a percentage of revenue 34.5 % 35.7 % (1.2) pts 34.8 % 36.1 % (1.3) pts
Amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses $ 73 $ 79 (8) % $ 313 $ 215 46 %
Restructuring and other charges included in operating expenses $ (2) $ 8 (133) % $ 6 $ 886 (99) %
Operating income as a percentage of revenue 26.2 % 27.2 % (1.0) pts 27.1 % 25.8 % 1.3 pts
Interest and other income (loss), net $ (18) $ 160 (111) % $ 508 $ 429 18 %
Income tax percentage 17.6 % 19.4 % (1.8) pts 18.4 % 20.1 % (1.7) pts
Net income $ 2,815 $ 3,009 (6) % $ 11,812 $ 10,591 12 %
Net income as a percentage of revenue 21.5 % 22.9 % (1.4) pts 22.9 % 21.3 % 1.6 pts
Earnings per share—diluted $ 0.68 $ 0.71 (4) % $ 2.82 $ 2.50 13 %

Percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.

32

Table of Contents
Fiscal 2022 Compared with Fiscal 2021
In fiscal 2022, we delivered growth in total revenue and strong profitability in a challenging environment impacted by significant supply constraints, rising component and related costs, and the Russia and Ukraine war. We remain focused on delivering innovation across our technologies to assist our customers in executing on their digital transformations. We continue to be negatively impacted by supply constraints seen industry-wide due to component shortages. While we did see some easing of the supply constraints towards the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, we expect the constraints to continue and the duration is uncertain. We have, and continue to take, multiple steps in order to mitigate the component shortages and deliver products to our customers. We continued to make progress in the transition of our business model delivering increased software and subscriptions. We remain focused on accelerating innovation across our portfolio, and we believe that we have made continued progress on our strategic priorities. We continue to operate in a challenging macroeconomic and highly competitive environment. While the overall environment remains uncertain, we continue to aggressively invest in priority areas with the objective of driving profitable growth over the long term.
Total revenue increased by 3% compared with fiscal 2021. Within total revenue, product revenue increased by 6% and service revenue decreased by 2%. Fiscal 2022 had 52 weeks, compared with 53 weeks in fiscal 2021, thus our results for fiscal 2022 reflect one less week compared with fiscal 2021. In fiscal 2022, total software revenue was flat at $15.1 billion across all product areas and service. Within total software revenue, subscription revenue increased 3%. Total gross margin decreased by 1.5 percentage points. Product gross margin decreased by 2.1 percentage points, largely driven by increased costs related to supply constraints and to a lesser extent, product mix, partially offset by favorable pricing. As a percentage of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, collectively, decreased by 1.3 percentage points. Operating income as a percentage of revenue increased by 1.3 percentage points. Diluted earnings per share increased 13%, driven by an increase of 12% in net income and a decrease in diluted share count of 44 million shares.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased by $0.7 billion, EMEA revenue increased by $0.8 billion and revenue in our APJC segment increased by $0.3 billion.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced product revenue growth in the commercial, enterprise and service provider markets partially offset by a decline in the public sector market.
From a product category perspective, total product revenue increased 6% year over year, driven by growth in revenue in Secure, Agile Networks of 5%; Internet for the Future of 17%; End-to-End Security of 9% and Optimized Application Experiences of 11%; partially offset by a product revenue decline in Collaboration of 5%.
Russia and Ukraine War
In March 2022, in connection with the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Cisco announced its intention to stop business operations in Russia and Belarus for the foreseeable future. Those operations in Russia and Belarus included sales, services and related support functions. Further, on June 23, 2022, we announced that we will begin an orderly wind-down and exit of our business in Russia and Belarus.
Our business operations in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, collectively, comprised approximately 1% of our total revenue for the year ended July 31, 2021. Russia and Belarus, collectively, represented less than 0.1% of our total assets at the end of fiscal 2022. As a result of the war and the resulting events, we have not recognized revenue in these countries effective March 2022. The negative impact to total revenue was approximately $200 million for fiscal 2022, which includes committed revenue we would have otherwise recognized, charges for uncollectible receivables, and other items. Further, we also assessed the risk to the recoverability of our assets and other potential financial exposures in these countries. We have reserved for the non-recoverability of substantially all of our assets in Russia and Belarus. As a result, we have recognized certain non-recurring charges of $91 million in cost of sales and operating expenses in fiscal 2022 related to non-recoverability of certain assets, special personnel-related charges in order to support impacted employees, and severance and other exit related costs.
The ongoing effect of the Russia and Ukraine war are difficult to predict due to the other uncertainties identified in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors herein.

33

Table of Contents
Fourth Quarter Snapshot
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, total revenue, product revenue and service revenue were each flat as compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. With regard to our geographic segment performance, on a year-over-year basis, revenue in EMEA increased by 8% offset by declines in Americas and APJC by 3% and 2%, respectively. From a product category perspective, we experienced product revenue growth in Collaboration; End-to-End Security and Optimized Application Experiences; partially offset by declines in Secure, Agile Networks and Internet for the Future. Total gross margin decreased by 2.3 percentage points, driven by higher component and commodity costs, in addition to higher freight and logistics costs related to supply constraints, partially offset by favorable pricing and product mix. As a percentage of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses collectively decreased by 1.2 percentage points. Operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased by 1.0 percentage points. Diluted earnings per share decreased by 4%, driven by a decrease in net income of 6% and a decrease in diluted share count of 101 million shares.
Strategy and Priorities
As our customers add billions of new connections to their enterprises, and as more applications move to a multicloud environment, the network becomes even more critical. Our customers are navigating change at an unprecedented pace. In this dynamic environment, we believe their priorities are to reimagine applications, power hybrid work, transform infrastructure, and secure the enterprise.
Our strategy is to help our customers connect, secure, and automate to accelerate their digital agility in a cloud-first world. We are committed to driving a trusted customer experience, through our innovation, choice, and people.
For a full discussion of our strategy and priorities, see “Item 1. Business.”
Other Key Financial Measures
The following is a summary of our other key financial measures for fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 (in millions):

---------------------------------------------------- ----------- -----------
 Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2021
Cash and cash equivalents and investments $19,267 $24,518
Cash provided by operating activities $13,226 $15,454
Remaining performance obligations $31,539 $30,893
Repurchases of common stock—stock repurchase program $7,734 $2,902
Dividends paid $6,224 $6,163
Inventories $2,568 $1,559

34

Table of Contents
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies.
The inputs into certain of our judgments, assumptions, and estimates considered the economic implications of the COVID-19 pandemic, including the associated impact of supply constraints, on our critical and significant accounting estimates. The COVID-19 pandemic did not have a material impact on our significant judgments, assumptions and estimates that are reflected in our results for fiscal 2022. These estimates include: goodwill and identified purchased intangible assets and income taxes, among other items. The actual results that we experience may differ materially from our estimates. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, many of our estimates could require increased judgment and carry a higher degree of variability and volatility. As events continue to evolve our estimates may change materially in future periods.
Revenue Recognition
We enter into contracts with customers that can include various combinations of products and services which are generally distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. As a result, our contracts may contain multiple performance obligations. We determine whether arrangements are distinct based on whether the customer can benefit from the product or service on its own or together with other resources that are readily available and whether our commitment to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other obligations in the contract. We classify our hardware, perpetual software licenses, and SaaS as distinct performance obligations. Term software licenses represent multiple obligations, which include software licenses and software maintenance. In transactions where we deliver hardware or software, we are typically the principal and we record revenue and costs of goods sold on a gross basis.
We recognize revenue upon transfer of control of promised goods or services in a contract with a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. Transfer of control occurs once the customer has the contractual right to use the product, generally upon shipment, electronic delivery (or when the software is available for download by the customer), or once title and risk of loss has transferred to the customer. Transfer of control can also occur over time for software maintenance and services as the customer receives the benefit over the contract term. Our hardware and perpetual software licenses are distinct performance obligations where revenue is recognized upfront upon transfer of control. Term software licenses include multiple performance obligations where the term licenses are recognized upfront upon transfer of control, with the associated software maintenance revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as services and software updates are provided. SaaS arrangements do not include the right for the customer to take possession of the software during the term, and therefore have one distinct performance obligation which is satisfied over time with revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as the customer consumes the services. On our product sales, we record consideration from shipping and handling on a gross basis within net product sales. We record our revenue net of any associated sales taxes.
Revenue is allocated among these performance obligations in a manner that reflects the consideration that we expect to be entitled to for the promised goods or services based on standalone selling prices (SSP). SSP is estimated for each distinct performance obligation and judgment may be required in their determination. The best evidence of SSP is the observable price of a product or service when we sell the goods separately in similar circumstances and to similar customers. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, we determine SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs.
We assess relevant contractual terms in our customer contracts to determine the transaction price. We apply judgment in identifying contractual terms and determining the transaction price as we may be required to estimate variable consideration when determining the amount of revenue to recognize. Variable consideration includes potential contractual penalties and various rebate, cooperative marketing and other incentive programs that we offer to our distributors, channel partners and customers. When determining the amount of revenue to recognize, we estimate the expected usage of these programs, applying the expected value or most likely estimate and update the estimate at each reporting period as actual utilization becomes available. We also consider the customers’ right of return in determining the transaction price, where applicable. If actual credits received by distributors under these programs were to deviate significantly from our estimates, which are based on historical experience, our revenue could be adversely affected.
See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details.

35

Table of Contents
Inventory Valuation and Liability for Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers
Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories, determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and net realizable value, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.
We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory.
Our provision for inventory was $102 million, $116 million, and $74 million in fiscal 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was $227 million, $76 million, and $139 million in fiscal 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, or if supply constraints were to continue, we could be required to increase our inventory write-downs, and our liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, and accordingly our profitability, could be adversely affected. We regularly evaluate our exposure for inventory write-downs, and the adequacy of our liability for purchase commitments. We continue to manage through significant supply constraints seen industry-wide due to component shortages caused, in part, by the COVID-19 pandemic. For further discussion around the Supply Constraints Impacts and Risks, see “—Results of Operations—Gross Margin—Supply Constraints Impacts and Risks” and “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Inventory Supply Chain.”
Loss Contingencies
We are subject to the possibility of various losses arising in the ordinary course of business. We consider the likelihood of the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be made or adjusted and whether new accruals are required.
Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.
Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Asset Impairments
Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques. Goodwill represents a residual value as of the acquisition date, which in most cases results in measuring goodwill as an excess of the purchase consideration transferred plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquired company over the fair value of net assets acquired, including contingent consideration. We perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and between annual tests in certain circumstances for each reporting unit. The assessment of fair value for goodwill and purchased intangible assets is based on factors that market participants would use in an orderly transaction in accordance with the new accounting guidance for the fair value measurement of nonfinancial assets.
In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we could be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2022, 2021, and 2020. For the annual impairment testing in fiscal 2022, the excess of the fair value over the carrying value for each of our reporting units was $64.7 billion for the Americas, $55.2 billion for EMEA, and $21.0 billion for APJC.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, we performed a sensitivity analysis for goodwill impairment with respect to each of our respective reporting units and determined that a hypothetical 10% decline in the fair value of each reporting unit would not result in an impairment of goodwill for any reporting unit.
The fair value of acquired technology and patents, as well as acquired technology under development, is determined at acquisition date primarily using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. The discount rates used in the present value calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and

36

Table of Contents
then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle as appropriate. We consider the pricing model for products related to these acquisitions to be standard within the high-technology communications industry, and the applicable discount rates represent the rates that market participants would use for valuation of such intangible assets.
We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. Recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives of our purchased intangible assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. Our impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets were $15 million for fiscal 2022. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income.
Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate, primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign operations, R&D tax credits, foreign-derived intangible income deductions, global intangible low-taxed income, tax audit settlements, nondeductible compensation, and international realignments. Our effective tax rate was 18.4%, 20.1%, and 19.7% in fiscal 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively.
Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties.
Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made.
Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by changes to foreign-derived intangible income deduction, global intangible low-tax income and base erosion and anti-abuse tax laws, regulations, or interpretations thereof; by expiration of or lapses in tax incentives; by transfer pricing adjustments, including the effect of acquisitions on our legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, treaties, or interpretations thereof, including changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, and the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The OECD, an international association comprised of 38 countries, including the United States, has made changes and is contemplating additional changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. There can be no assurance that these changes and any contemplated changes if finalized, once adopted by countries, will not have an adverse impact on our provision for income taxes. As a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries was subject to reduced tax rates. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.

37

Table of Contents
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 is presented below. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, with the exception of Product Revenue by Category, for which is discussed herein, can be found under Item 7 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on September 9, 2021.
Revenue
The following table presents the breakdown of revenue between product and service (in millions, except percentages):

--------------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ------ ------------- ------ ------------------- - ------------------- ------ --- ----- - -
 Years Ended 2022 vs. 2021
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent
Revenue:
Product $ 38,018 $ 36,014 $ 35,978 $ 2,004 6 %
Percentage of revenue 73.7 % 72.3 % 73.0 %
Service 13,539 13,804 13,323 (265) (2) %
Percentage of revenue 26.3 % 27.7 % 27.0 %
Total $ 51,557 $ 49,818 $ 49,301 $ 1,739 3 %

We manage our business primarily on a geographic basis, organized into three geographic segments. Our revenue, which includes product and service for each segment, is summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages):

--------------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ------ ------------- ------ ------------------- - ------------------- ------ - ----- - -
 Years Ended 2022 vs. 2021
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent
Revenue:
Americas $ 29,814 $ 29,161 $ 29,291 $ 653 2 %
Percentage of revenue 57.8 % 58.5 % 59.4 %
EMEA 13,715 12,951 12,659 764 6 %
Percentage of revenue 26.6 % 26.0 % 25.7 %
APJC 8,027 7,706 7,352 321 4 %
Percentage of revenue 15.6 % 15.5 % 14.9 %
Total $ 51,557 $ 49,818 $ 49,301 $ 1,739 3 %

Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.
Total revenue in fiscal 2022 increased by 3% compared with fiscal 2021. Product revenue increased by 6% and service revenue decreased by 2%. Our total revenue reflected growth across each of our geographic segments.
In addition to the impact of macroeconomic factors, including the IT spending environment and the level of spending by government entities, revenue by segment in a particular period may be significantly impacted by several factors related to revenue recognition, including the complexity of transactions such as multiple performance obligations; the mix of financing arrangements provided to channel partners and customers; and final acceptance of the product, system, or solution, among other factors. In addition, certain customers tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the revenue related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition, which in turn would impact the revenue of the relevant segment.

38

Table of Contents
Product Revenue by Segment
The following table presents the breakdown of product revenue by segment (in millions, except percentages):

----------------------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ----- ------------- ------ ------------------- - ------------------- ------ - ----- - -
 Years Ended 2022 vs. 2021
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent
Product revenue:
Americas $ 21,620 $ 20,688 $ 21,006 $ 932 5 %
Percentage of product revenue 56.9 % 57.5 % 58.4 %
EMEA 10,545 9,805 9,647 740 8 %
Percentage of product revenue 27.7 % 27.2 % 26.8 %
APJC 5,854 5,521 5,326 333 6 %
Percentage of product revenue 15.4 % 15.3 % 14.8 %
Total $ 38,018 $ 36,014 $ 35,978 $ 2,004 6 %

Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.
Americas
Product revenue in the Americas segment increased by 5%. The product revenue increase was driven by growth in the service provider, commercial and enterprise markets, partially offset by a decline in the public sector market. From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 5% in the United States, 5% in Canada and 7% in Mexico, partially offset by a product revenue decrease of 1% in Brazil.
EMEA
The increase in product revenue in the EMEA segment of 8% was driven by growth in the commercial, enterprise and service provider markets The public sector market was flat. From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 14% in the United Kingdom and 9% in Germany, partially offset by a decline of 3% in France.
APJC
Product revenue in the APJC segment increased by 6%, driven by growth in the commercial and enterprise markets, partially offset by declines in the service provider and public sector markets. From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 18% in China and 10% in Australia, partially offset by declines of 9% in Japan and 1% in India.

39

Table of Contents
Product Revenue by Category
In addition to the primary view on a geographic basis, we also prepare financial information related to product categories and customer markets for various purposes. Effective fiscal 2022, we began reporting our product revenue in the following categories: Secure, Agile Networks; Internet for the Future; Collaboration; End-to-End Security; Optimized Application Experiences; and Other Products. This change will better align our product categories with our strategic priorities.
The following table presents product revenue by category (in millions, except percentages):

--------------------------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ----- ------------- ------ ------------------- ------------------- ------ ------------------- ------------------- ----- ---- - - ---- - ----- --- -
 Years Ended 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent
Product revenue:
Secure, Agile Networks $ 23,829 $ 22,722 $ 23,265 $ 1,107 5 % $ (543) (2) %
Internet for the Future 5,278 4,514 4,180 764 17 % 334 8 %
Collaboration 4,472 4,727 4,823 (255) (5) % (96) (2) %
End-to-End Security 3,699 3,382 3,158 317 9 % 224 7 %
Optimized Application Experiences 729 654 524 75 11 % 130 25 %
Other Products 11 15 28 (4) (29) % (13) (47) %
Total $ 38,018 $ 36,014 $ 35,978 $ 2,004 6 % $ 36 — %

Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.
Secure, Agile Networks
Fiscal 2022 Compared with Fiscal 2021
The Secure, Agile Networks product category represents our core networking offerings related to switching, enterprise routing, wireless, and compute. Secure, Agile Networks revenue increased by 5%, or $1.1 billion, with growth across the portfolio except enterprise routing. Revenue grew in both campus switching and data center switching, primarily driven by growth in our Catalyst 9000 series, Nexus 9000 series and Meraki switching offerings. The decrease in enterprise routing was primarily driven by declines in our Access and Edge offerings. Wireless had double-digit growth driven by our WiFi-6 products and Meraki offerings. Revenue from compute grew primarily driven by our servers.
Fiscal 2021 Compared with Fiscal 2020
Revenue from the Secure, Agile Networks product category decreased by 2%, or $543 million, driven by declines across the portfolio with the exception of Wireless. Switching revenue declined in both campus switching and data center switching, although we had double-digit growth in our Catalyst 9000 series and Meraki switching offerings and growth in our Nexus 9000 series. The decrease in enterprise routing was primarily driven by declines in our Access offerings, partially offset by growth in our SD-WAN and Edge offerings. Wireless had solid growth driven by our Meraki offerings and the ramp of our WiFi-6 products. Revenue from compute declined primarily driven by our servers.
Internet for the Future
Fiscal 2022 Compared with Fiscal 2021
The Internet for the Future product category includes our routed optical networking, 5G, silicon and optics solutions. Revenue in our Internet for the Future product category increased by 17%, or $764 million, driven by growth in the webscale provider market. We saw growth in our Cisco 8000, NCS 5500 and ASR 9000 series offerings, and also saw a benefit from our acquisition of Acacia in the third quarter of fiscal 2021.
Fiscal 2021 Compared with Fiscal 2020
Revenue in our Internet for the Future product category increased 8%, or $334 million, driven by growth in our NCS 5500 series offerings and the ramp of our Cisco 8000 series offerings.

40

Table of Contents
Collaboration
Fiscal 2022 Compared with Fiscal 2021
The Collaboration product category consists of our Meetings, Collaboration Devices, Calling, Contact Center and CPaaS offerings. Revenue in our Collaboration product category decreased 5%, or $255 million, with declines in our Meetings, Calling and Contact Center offerings, partially offset by the ramp in our CPaaS offerings.
Fiscal 2021 Compared with Fiscal 2020
Revenue in our Collaboration product category decreased by 2%, or $96 million, with declines in our Collaboration Devices, partially offset by growth in our Meetings, Calling and Contact Center offerings.
End-to-End Security
Fiscal 2022 Compared with Fiscal 2021
The End-to-End Security product category consists of our Network Security, Cloud Security, Security Endpoints, Unified Threat Management and Zero Trust offerings. Revenue in our End-to-End Security product category increased by 9%, or $317 million, primarily driven by growth in our Zero Trust portfolio, Network Security, Unified Threat Management and Security Endpoint offerings. Our Zero Trust portfolio reflected double-digit growth driven by continued momentum with our Duo offerings.
Fiscal 2021 Compared with Fiscal 2020
Revenue in our End-to-End Security product category increased by 7%, or $224 million, primarily driven by growth in our cloud-based solutions and Unified Threat Management offerings, partially offset by declines in our Network Security offerings. Our Zero Trust portfolio reflected growth driven by our Duo offerings.
Optimized Application Experiences
Fiscal 2022 Compared with Fiscal 2021
The Optimized Application Experiences product category includes our full stack observability and cloud-native platforms offerings. Revenue in our Optimized Application Experiences product category increased 11%, or $75 million, driven by growth in our ThousandEyes and Intersight offerings, partially offset by a decline in our AppDynamics offerings.
Fiscal 2021 Compared with Fiscal 2020
Revenue in our Optimized Application Experiences product category increased by 25%, or $130 million, driven by growth in our Intersight offerings. We also had a benefit from our acquisition of ThousandEyes.

Service Revenue by Segment
The following table presents the breakdown of service revenue by segment (in millions, except percentages):

----------------------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ----- ------------- ------ ------------------- - ------------------- ------ --- ----- --- -
 Years Ended 2022 vs. 2021
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent
Service revenue:
Americas $ 8,194 $ 8,472 $ 8,285 $ (278) (3) %
Percentage of service revenue 60.5 % 61.4 % 62.2 %
EMEA 3,171 3,146 3,012 25 1 %
Percentage of service revenue 23.4 % 22.8 % 22.6 %
APJC 2,173 2,186 2,026 (13) (1) %
Percentage of service revenue 16.0 % 15.8 % 15.2 %
Total $ 13,539 $ 13,804 $ 13,323 $ (265) (2) %

Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.
Service revenue decreased 2%, driven by declines in our maintenance business, advisory services and software support offerings, partially offset by growth in our solution support and network support offerings. The extra week in fiscal 2021 also contributed to the decrease in service revenue in fiscal 2022. Service revenue decreased in the Americas and APJC segments, partially offset by growth in the EMEA segment.

41

Table of Contents
Gross Margin
The following table presents the gross margin for products and services (in millions, except percentages):

------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ----- ------------- ------ ------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ---- - ---- - ---- -
 AMOUNT PERCENTAGE
Years Ended July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020
Gross margin:
Product $ 23,204 $ 22,714 $ 22,779 61.0 % 63.1 % 63.3 %
Service 9,044 9,180 8,904 66.8 % 66.5 % 66.8 %
Total $ 32,248 $ 31,894 $ 31,683 62.5 % 64.0 % 64.3 %

Product Gross Margin
The following table summarizes the key factors that contributed to the change in product gross margin percentage from fiscal 2021 to fiscal 2022:

-------------------- ------------------------------- -
 Product Gross Margin Percentage
Fiscal 2021 63.1 %
Productivity (1) (2.8) %
Product pricing 1.0 %
Mix of products sold (0.3) %
Others — %
Fiscal 2022 61.0 %

 (1) Productivity includes overall manufacturing-related costs, such as component costs, warranty expense, provision for inventory, freight, logistics, shipment volume, and other items not categorized elsewhere.
Product gross margin decreased by 2.1 percentage points primarily driven by negative impacts from productivity, largely driven by increased costs related to supply constraints from freight, expedites, and higher component and commodity costs. These impacts were partially offset by favorable pricing. The benefit we saw from favorable pricing was primarily driven by price increases implemented during fiscal 2022, to partially offset increases in components and commodity costs, freight and logistics costs, driven by supply constraints.
Supply Constraints Impacts and Risks
We continue to manage through significant supply constraints seen industry-wide due to component shortages caused, in part, by the COVID-19 pandemic, and for which the duration of such constraints is uncertain. These shortages have resulted in increased costs (i.e., component and other commodity costs, freight, expedite fees, etc.) which have had a negative impact on our product gross margin and have resulted in extended lead times for us and our customers. We have taken a number of steps in order to mitigate the supply constraint related impacts including: partnering with several of our key suppliers utilizing our volume purchasing ability and extending supply coverage, including, in certain cases, revising supplier arrangements; paying significantly higher component and logistics costs to secure supply; modifying our product designs in order to leverage alternate suppliers, where possible; and continually optimizing our inventory build and customer delivery plans, among others. We believe these actions are helping us to optimize our access to critical components and meet customer demand for our products. We continue to see solid demand across the majority of our portfolio. As a result, in order to secure supply to meet customer demand, we have increased our inventory balances, inventory purchase commitments, and inventory deposits and prepayments (see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Inventory Supply Chain”), which, in turn, has increased our supply chain exposure. Additionally, in certain situations, we have prepaid or made deposits with suppliers to secure future supply. These actions significantly increase the risk of future material excess and obsolete inventory and related losses if customer demand were to suddenly and significantly decrease in future periods. While we believe we are taking the right strategic and operational actions to address the supply situation, we recognize the increased risks.
Service Gross Margin
Our service gross margin percentage increased by 0.3 percentage points primarily due to lower headcount-related and delivery costs and favorable mix of service offerings, partially offset by lower sales volume.
Our service gross margin normally experiences some fluctuations due to various factors such as the timing of contract initiations in our renewals, our strategic investments in headcount, and the resources we deploy to support the overall service

42

Table of Contents
business. Other factors include the mix of service offerings, as the gross margin from our advanced services is typically lower than the gross margin from technical support services.
Gross Margin by Segment
The following table presents the total gross margin for each segment (in millions, except percentages):

------------------------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ------- ------------- ------ ------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ---- - ---- - ---- -
 AMOUNT PERCENTAGE
Years Ended July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020
Gross margin:
Americas $ 19,117 $ 19,499 $ 19,547 64.1 % 66.9 % 66.7 %
EMEA 8,969 8,466 8,304 65.4 % 65.4 % 65.6 %
APJC 5,241 4,949 4,688 65.3 % 64.2 % 63.8 %
Segment total 33,326 32,914 32,538 64.6 % 66.1 % 66.0 %
Unallocated corporate items (1) (1,078) (1,020) (855)
Total $ 32,248 $ 31,894 $ 31,683 62.5 % 64.0 % 64.3 %

 (1) The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization and impairments of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, significant litigation settlements and other contingencies, charges related to asset impairments and restructurings, and certain other charges. We do not allocate these items to the gross margin for each segment because management does not include such information in measuring the performance of the operating segments.
Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.
We experienced a gross margin percentage decrease in our Americas segment due to negative impacts from productivity and unfavorable product mix, partially offset by favorable pricing.
Gross margin in our EMEA segment was flat due to higher service gross margin, favorable product mix and favorable pricing offset by negative impacts from productivity.
The APJC segment gross margin percentage increase was due to favorable product mix and favorable pricing, partially offset by negative impacts from productivity.
The gross margin percentage for a particular segment may fluctuate, and period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that segment.

Research and Development (“R&D”), Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative (“G&A”) Expenses
R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages):

-------------------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ----- ------------- ------ ------------------- - ------------------- ------ --- --- - -
 Years Ended 2022 vs. 2021
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent
Research and development $ 6,774 $ 6,549 $ 6,347 $ 225 3 %
Percentage of revenue 13.1 % 13.1 % 12.9 %
Sales and marketing 9,085 9,259 9,169 (174) (2) %
Percentage of revenue 17.6 % 18.6 % 18.6 %
General and administrative 2,101 2,152 1,925 (51) (2) %
Percentage of revenue 4.1 % 4.3 % 3.9 %
Total $ 17,960 $ 17,960 $ 17,441 $ — — %
Percentage of revenue 34.8 % 36.1 % 35.4 %

Our fiscal 2022 had one less week compared with fiscal 2021, which had an extra week.
R&D Expenses
R&D expenses increased due to higher headcount-related expenses, higher share-based compensation expense, higher acquisition-related costs and higher contracted services spending, partially offset by lower discretionary spending.

43

Table of Contents
We continue to invest in R&D in order to bring a broad range of products to market in a timely fashion. If we believe that we are unable to enter a particular market in a timely manner with internally developed products, we may purchase or license technology from other businesses, or we may partner with or acquire businesses as an alternative to internal R&D.
Sales and Marketing Expenses
Sales and marketing expenses decreased primarily due to lower headcount-related expenses and lower contracted services spending, partially offset by higher discretionary spending, certain non-recurring charges recognized due to the Russia and Ukraine war and higher share-based compensation expense. The extra week in fiscal 2021 contributed to the decrease in headcount-related expenses.
G&A Expenses
G&A expenses decreased due to lower contracted services spending, partially offset by certain non-recurring charges recognized due to the Russia and Ukraine war.
Effect of Foreign Currency
In fiscal 2022, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased the combined R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by approximately $154 million, or 0.9%, compared with fiscal 2021.
Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets
The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets including impairment charges (in millions):

-------------------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- --- ------------- --- --- - ---
Years Ended July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020
Amortization of purchased intangible assets:
Cost of sales $ 749 $ 716 $ 659
Operating expenses 328 215 141
Total $ 1,077 $ 931 $ 800

The increase in amortization of purchased intangible assets was due largely to the amortization of purchased intangibles from our recent acquisitions and impairment charges of $15 million. The impairment charges were primarily due to declines in estimated fair value resulting from reductions in or the elimination of expected future cash flows associated with certain of our technology and in-process research and development (IPR&D) intangible assets.
Restructuring and Other Charges
The following table presents restructuring and other charges (in millions):

-------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- - ------------- ------------- --- - ---
Years Ended July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020
Restructuring and other charges included in operating expenses $ 6 $ 886 $ 481

We initiated a restructuring plan in fiscal 2021, which included a voluntary early retirement program, in order to realign the organization and enable further investment in key priority areas. The total pretax charges were estimated to be approximately $900 million. We incurred cumulative charges of $892 million and completed this plan in fiscal 2022.
Operating Income
The following table presents our operating income and our operating income as a percentage of revenue (in millions, except percentages):

------------------------------------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ---- ------------- ------ ---- - - ------
Years Ended July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020
Operating income $ 13,969 $ 12,833 $ 13,620
Operating income as a percentage of revenue 27.1 % 25.8 % 27.6 %

Operating income increased by 9%, and as a percentage of revenue operating income increased by 1.3 percentage points. These changes resulted primarily from a revenue increase and lower restructuring and other charges partially offset by a gross margin percentage decrease (driven by negative impacts from productivity partially offset by favorable pricing).

44

Table of Contents
Interest and Other Income (Loss), Net
Interest Income (Expense), Net   The following table summarizes interest income and interest expense (in millions):

------------------------------ ------------- --- ------------- ----- ------------- --- ------------------- - --- - -----
 Years Ended 2022 vs. 2021
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020 Variance in Dollars
Interest income $ 476 $ 618 $ 920 $ (142)
Interest expense (360) (434) (585) 74
Interest income (expense), net $ 116 $ 184 $ 335 $ (68)

Interest income decreased driven by lower average book yields and lower average balances of cash and available-for-sale debt investments. The decrease in interest expense was driven by a lower average debt balance.
Other Income (Loss), Net The components of other income (loss), net, are summarized as follows (in millions):

----------------------------------- ------------- --- ------------- ---- ------------- --- ------------------- - ---- - ----
 Years Ended 2022 vs. 2021
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020 Variance in Dollars
Gains (losses) on investments, net:
Available-for-sale debt investments $ 9 $ 53 $ 42 $ (44)
Marketable equity investments (38) 6 (5) (44)
Privately held investments 486 266 95 220
Net gains (losses) on investments 457 325 132 132
Other gains (losses), net (65) (80) (117) 15
Other income (loss), net $ 392 $ 245 $ 15 $ 147

The increase in our other income (loss), net was primarily driven by higher realized and unrealized gains on our privately held investments, and to a lesser extent, favorable impacts from foreign exchange. The increase was partially offset by changes in net gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt investments and marketable equity investments.
Provision for Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 18.4% for fiscal 2022, compared with 20.1% for fiscal 2021. The net 1.7 percentage points decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to a decrease in prior year discrete tax expenses and state taxes.
For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% and for further explanation of our provision for income taxes, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

45

Table of Contents
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, our capital allocation strategy including stock repurchase program and dividends, our contractual obligations, and certain other commitments and activities on our liquidity and capital resources.
Balance Sheet and Cash Flows
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments  The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents and investments (in millions):

----------------------------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ------ ------------------- ------ ------- - -------
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 Increase (Decrease)
Cash and cash equivalents $ 7,079 $ 9,175 $ (2,096)
Available-for-sale debt investments 11,947 15,206 (3,259)
Marketable equity securities 241 137 104
Total $ 19,267 $ 24,518 $ (5,251)

The net decrease in cash and cash equivalents and investments from fiscal 2021 to fiscal 2022 was primarily driven by cash returned to stockholders in the form of repurchases of common stock of $7.7 billion under the stock repurchase program and cash dividends of $6.2 billion, net decrease in debt of $2.5 billion, changes in unrealized losses of our investments and other of $0.9 billion, net increase in restricted cash equivalents of $0.8 billion, capital expenditures of $0.5 billion and net cash paid for acquisitions and divestitures of $0.4 billion. These uses of cash were partially offset by cash provided by operating activities of $13.2 billion and issuance of commercial paper of $0.6 billion.
We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We classify our investments as short-term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and our available-for-sale debt investment portfolio consisting primarily of high quality investment-grade securities. We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, for acquisitions, for customer financing activities, for working capital needs, and for the repurchase of shares of common stock and payment of dividends as discussed below.
Securities Lending We periodically engage in securities lending activities with certain of our available-for-sale debt investments. These transactions are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis. We require collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets. We engage in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify us against collateral losses. We did not experience any losses in connection with the secured lending of securities during the periods presented. As of July 30, 2022 and July 31, 2021, we had no outstanding securities lending transactions.
Free Cash Flow and Capital Allocation As part of our capital allocation strategy, we target to return a minimum of 50% of our free cash flow annually to our stockholders through cash dividends and repurchases of common stock.
We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less cash used to acquire property and equipment. The following table reconciles our net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow (in millions):

----------------------------------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ----- ------------- ------ ----- - ------
Years Ended July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 13,226 $ 15,454 $ 15,426
Acquisition of property and equipment (477) (692) (770)
Free cash flow $ 12,749 $ 14,762 $ 14,656

We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, the rate at which products are shipped during the quarter (which we refer to as shipment linearity), the timing and collection of accounts receivable and financing receivables, inventory and supply chain management, deferred revenue and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. For additional discussion, see “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this report.
We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors because of our intent to return a stated percentage of free cash flow to stockholders in the form of dividends and stock repurchases. We

46

Table of Contents
further regard free cash flow as a useful measure because it reflects cash that can be used to, among other things, invest in our business, make strategic acquisitions, repurchase common stock, and pay dividends on our common stock, after deducting capital investments. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance and liquidity is that the free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period. In addition, we have other required uses of cash, including repaying the principal of our outstanding indebtedness. Free cash flow is not a measure calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and should not be regarded in isolation or as an alternative for net cash provided by operating activities or any other measure calculated in accordance with such principles, and other companies may calculate free cash flow in a different manner than we do.
The following table summarizes the dividends paid and stock repurchases (in millions, except per-share amounts):

------------- --------- ---- ------------------------ ------ ----- -------------------------------- ------ ------ - ----- - ----- - ------
 DIVIDENDS STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM TOTAL
Years Ended Per Share Amount Shares Weighted-Average Price per Share Amount Amount
July 30, 2022 $ 1.50 $ 6,224 146 $ 52.82 $ 7,734 $ 13,958
July 31, 2021 $ 1.46 $ 6,163 64 $ 45.48 $ 2,902 $ 9,065
July 25, 2020 $ 1.42 $ 6,016 59 $ 44.36 $ 2,619 $ 8,635

On August 23, 2022, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.38 per common share to be paid on October 26, 2022, to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on October 5, 2022. Any future dividends are subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
The remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program is approximately $15.2 billion, with no termination date.
Accounts Receivable, Net  The following table summarizes our accounts receivable, net (in millions):

------------------------ ------------- ----- ------------- ------------------- ----- - ---
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 Increase (Decrease)
Accounts receivable, net $ 6,622 $ 5,766 $ 856

Our accounts receivable net, as of July 30, 2022 increased by approximately 15% compared with the end of fiscal 2021, primarily due to timing and amount of product and service billings at the end of fiscal 2022 compared with the end of fiscal 2021.
Inventory Supply Chain  The following table summarizes our inventories and inventory purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers (in millions):

---------------------------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ------------- ------ -------------------------- -------------------------- ----- - ----- - -----
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020 Variance vs. July 31, 2021 Variance vs. July 25, 2020
Inventories $ 2,568 $ 1,559 $ 1,282 $ 1,009 $ 1,286
Inventory purchase commitments $ 12,964 $ 10,254 $ 4,406 $ 2,710 $ 8,558
Inventory deposits and prepayments $ 1,484 $ 162 $ 117 $ 1,322 $ 1,367

The following table summarizes our inventory purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers by period (in millions):

---------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ----- ------------- ------ -------------------------- -------------------------- ----- ----- ----- - -----
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 July 25, 2020 Variance vs. July 31, 2021 Variance vs. July 25, 2020
Less than 1 year $ 9,954 $ 6,903 $ 3,994 $ 3,051 $ 5,960
1 to 3 years 2,240 1,806 412 434 1,828
3 to 5 years 770 1,545 — (775) 770
Total $ 12,964 $ 10,254 $ 4,406 $ 2,710 $ 8,558

Inventory as of July 30, 2022 increased by 65% and 100% from our inventory balances at the end of fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020, respectively. Inventory purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers increased by 26% and 194% from our balances at the end of fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020, respectively. We increased our balances in inventories, inventory purchase commitments, and inventory deposits and prepayments as compared to prior fiscal years in order to address significant supply constraints seen industry-wide. The increases were primarily due to arrangements to secure supply and pricing for certain product components and commitments with contract manufacturers to meet customer demand and to address extended

47

Table of Contents
lead times, as well as advance payments with suppliers to secure future supply, as a result of the supply constraints. We have partnered with several of our key suppliers utilizing our volume purchasing and extending supply coverage, including revising supplier arrangements. As discussed, our risks of future material excess and obsolete inventory and related losses are further outlined in the Result of Operations—Product Gross Margin section.
We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements and our commitment to securing manufacturing capacity.
Our inventory purchase commitments are for short-term product manufacturing requirements as well as for commitments to suppliers to secure manufacturing capacity. Certain of our inventory purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers relate to arrangements to secure supply and pricing for certain product components for multi-year periods. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed.
Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence because of supply constraints, rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We believe the amount of our inventory and inventory purchase commitments is appropriate for our current and expected customer demand and revenue levels.
Financing Receivables and Guarantees The following table summarizes our financing receivables (in millions):

------------------------------- ------------- ----- ------------- ----- ------------------- ----- ----- - -------
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 Increase (Decrease)
Lease receivables, net $ 1,175 $ 1,697 $ (522)
Loan receivables, net 4,556 5,117 (561)
Financed service contracts, net 2,183 2,450 (267)
Total, net $ 7,914 $ 9,264 $ (1,350)

Financing Receivables  Our financing arrangements include leases, loans, and financed service contracts. Lease receivables include sales-type leases. Arrangements related to leases are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Our loan receivables include customer financing for purchases of our hardware, software and services and also may include additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. We also provide financing to certain qualified customers for long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services. The majority of the revenue from these financed service contracts is deferred and is recognized ratably over the period during which the services are performed. Financing receivables decreased by 15%.
Financing Guarantees  In the normal course of business, third parties may provide financing arrangements to our customers and channel partners under financing programs. The financing arrangements provided by third parties are related to leases and loans and typically have terms of up to three years. In some cases, we provide guarantees to third parties for these lease and loan arrangements. The financing arrangements to channel partners consist of revolving short-term financing provided by third parties, with payment terms generally ranging from 60 to 90 days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of our receivables to the third party. The receivables are derecognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales, and we receive payments for the receivables from the third party based on our standard payment terms.
The volume of channel partner financing was $27.9 billion, $26.7 billion, and $26.9 billion in fiscal 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners, and in some cases, we guarantee a portion of these arrangements. The balance of the channel partner financing subject to guarantees was $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion as of July 30, 2022 and July 31, 2021, respectively. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners. Historically, our payments under these arrangements have been immaterial. Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees. In either case, the deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the guarantee is removed. As of July 30, 2022, the total maximum potential future payments related to these guarantees was approximately $179 million, of which approximately $9 million was recorded as deferred revenue.

48

Table of Contents
Borrowings
Senior Notes  The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior notes (in millions):

----------------- ------------------ ------------- ----- ------------- ----- - ------
 Maturity Date July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021
Senior notes:
Fixed-rate notes:
 1.85% September 20, 2021 $ — $ 2,000
 3.00% June 15, 2022 — 500
 2.60% February 28, 2023 500 500
 2.20% September 20, 2023 750 750
 3.625% March 4, 2024 1,000 1,000
 3.50% June 15, 2025 500 500
 2.95% February 28, 2026 750 750
 2.50% September 20, 2026 1,500 1,500
 5.90% February 15, 2039 2,000 2,000
 5.50% January 15, 2040 2,000 2,000
Total $ 9,000 $ 11,500

Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of July 30, 2022.
Commercial Paper We have a short-term debt financing program in which up to $10.0 billion is available through the issuance of commercial paper notes. We use the proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes for general corporate purposes. We had $0.6 billion in commercial paper notes outstanding as of July 30, 2022, and no commercial paper outstanding as of July 31, 2021.
Credit Facility On May 13, 2021, we entered into a 5-year credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on May 13, 2026. As of July 30, 2022, we were in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants, and we had not borrowed any funds under the credit agreement. Any advances under the 5-year credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain conditions, either (a) with respect to loans in U.S. dollars, (i) LIBOR or (ii) the Base Rate (to be defined as the highest of (x) the Bank of America prime rate, (y) the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% and (z) a daily rate equal to one-month LIBOR plus 1.0%), (b) with respect to loans in Euros, EURIBOR, (c) with respect to loans in Yen, TIBOR and (d) with respect to loans in Pounds Sterling, SONIA plus a credit spread adjustment, plus a margin that is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services, LLC and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., provided that in no event will the interest rate be less than 0.0%. We will pay a quarterly commitment fee during the term of the 5-year credit agreement which may vary depending on our senior debt credit ratings. In addition, the 5-year credit agreement incorporates certain sustainability-linked metrics. Specifically, our applicable interest rate and commitment fee are subject to upward or downward adjustments if we achieve, or fail to achieve, certain specified targets based on two key performance indicator metrics: (i) social impact and (ii) foam reduction. We may also, upon the agreement of either the then-existing lenders or additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $2.0 billion and, at our option, extend the maturity of the facility for an additional year up to two times. The credit agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants, including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement.

49

Table of Contents
Remaining Performance Obligations The following table presents the breakdown of remaining performance obligations (in millions):

-------------- ------------- ------ ------------- ------ ------------------- ------ ----- - ---
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 Increase (Decrease)
Product $ 14,090 $ 13,270 $ 820
Service 17,449 17,623 (174)
Total $ 31,539 $ 30,893 $ 646

Short-term RPO $ 16,936 $ 16,289 $ 647
Long-term RPO 14,603 14,604 (1)
Total $ 31,539 $ 30,893 $ 646

Total remaining performance obligations increased 2% in fiscal 2022. Remaining performance obligations for product increased 6% and remaining product obligations for service decreased 1%, compared to fiscal 2021. We expect approximately 54% of total remaining performance obligations to be recognized as revenue over the next 12 months.
Deferred Revenue   The following table presents the breakdown of deferred revenue (in millions):

------------ ------------- ------ ------------- ------ ------------------- ------ --- - -----
 July 30, 2022 July 31, 2021 Increase (Decrease)
Product $ 10,427 $ 9,416 $ 1,011
Service 12,837 12,748 89
Total $ 23,264 $ 22,164 $ 1,100
Reported as:
Current $ 12,784 $ 12,148 $ 636
Noncurrent 10,480 10,016 464
Total $ 23,264 $ 22,164 $ 1,100

Total deferred revenue increased 5% in fiscal 2022. The increase in deferred product revenue of 11% was primarily due to increased deferrals related to our recurring software offerings. The slight increase in deferred service revenue was driven by the impact of contract renewals, partially offset by amortization of deferred service revenue.
Contractual Obligations
The impact of contractual obligations on our liquidity and capital resources in future periods should be analyzed in conjunction with the factors that impact our cash flows from operations discussed previously. In addition, we plan for and measure our liquidity and capital resources through an annual budgeting process. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at July 30, 2022 (in millions):

-------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------ ---------------- ----- ------------ ------ ------------ ----------------- ----- ----- ----- - -----
 PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD
July 30, 2022 Total Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More than 5 Years
Operating leases $ 1,127 $ 343 $ 431 $ 168 $ 185
Purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers 12,964 9,954 2,240 770 —
Other purchase obligations 2,601 1,030 879 662 30
Senior notes 9,000 500 2,250 2,250 4,000
Transition tax payable 6,183 727 3,183 2,273 —
Other long-term liabilities 1,189 — 187 135 867
Total by period $ 33,064 $ 12,554 $ 9,170 $ 6,258 $ 5,082
Other long-term liabilities (uncertainty in the timing of future payments) 2,324
Total $ 35,388

50

Table of Contents
Operating Leases  For more information on our operating leases, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers  We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. Our inventory purchase commitments are for short-term product manufacturing requirements as well as for commitments to suppliers to secure manufacturing capacity. Certain of our inventory purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers relate to arrangements to secure supply and pricing for certain product components for multi-year periods. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. See further discussion in “Inventory Supply Chain.”
Other Purchase Obligations  Other purchase obligations represent an estimate of all contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, other than operating leases and commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services. Purchase orders are not included in the preceding table as they typically represent our authorization to purchase rather than binding contractual purchase obligations.
Long-Term Debt  The amount of long-term debt in the preceding table represents the principal amount of the respective debt instruments. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Transition Tax Payable Transition tax payable represents future cash tax payments associated with the one-time U.S. transition tax on accumulated earnings for foreign subsidiaries as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“the Tax Act”).
Other Long-Term Liabilities  Other long-term liabilities primarily include noncurrent income taxes payable, accrued liabilities for deferred compensation, deferred tax liabilities, and certain other long-term liabilities. Due to the uncertainty in the timing of future payments, our noncurrent income taxes payable of approximately $2.3 billion and deferred tax liabilities of $55 million were presented as one aggregated amount in the total column on a separate line in the preceding table. Noncurrent income taxes payable include uncertain tax positions. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Other Commitments
In connection with our acquisitions, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of certain agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones or the continued employment with us of certain employees of the acquired entities. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our privately held investments, some of which may be based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones or are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were $0.4 billion and $0.2 billion as of July 30, 2022 and July 31, 2021, respectively.
In the ordinary course of business, we have privately held investments and provide financing to certain customers. Certain of these investments are considered to be variable interest entities. We evaluate on an ongoing basis our privately held investments and customer financings, and we have determined that as of July 30, 2022 there were no material unconsolidated variable interest entities.
On an ongoing basis, we reassess our privately held investments and customer financings to determine if they are variable interest entities and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary pursuant to the applicable accounting guidance. As a result of this ongoing assessment, we may be required to make additional disclosures or consolidate these entities. Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events.
We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to our channel partners. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners. See the previous discussion of these financing guarantees under “Financing Receivables and Guarantees.”
Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements
While the COVID-19 pandemic and the Russia and Ukraine war have not materially impacted our liquidity and capital resources to date, it has led to increased disruption and volatility in capital markets and credit markets. These events and resulting economic uncertainty could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources in the future. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and committed credit lines will satisfy, through at least the next 12 months, our liquidity requirements, both in total and domestically, including the following: working capital needs (including inventory and other supply related payments), capital expenditures, investment requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, pending acquisitions, future customer financings, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. We expect increased payments related to inventory and other supply related payments through at least the next 12 months. There are no other transactions, arrangements, or relationships with

51

Table of Contents
unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect the liquidity and the availability of, as well as our requirements for, capital resources.

52

Table of Contents

-------- ----------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[see Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97

[see Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97

[see Note 15]:
Note 15. Financial Instruments and Risk Management 63

[See Note 3]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. The fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management's best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date. Fair values associated with the net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill were pending finalization as of the reporting date. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------------ --- - (dollars in millions) Amount Weighted Average Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. (2) Non-deductible for tax-purposes. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Frame.io acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. 70 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[see Note 18]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. Prior to our adoption of ASC 842 in fiscal 2020, operating lease expense was $170 million for fiscal 2019. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense is net of sublease income and includes variable lease costs, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - -- (in millions) 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 3, 2021 were 8 years and 2.28%, respectively. As of December 3, 2021, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2022 $ 108 2023 87 2024 68 2025 65 2026 60 Thereafter 216 Total lease liabilities $ 604 Less: Imputed interest 54 Present value of lease liabilities $ 550 _________________________________________ (1) Operating lease payments exclude $16 million of legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. 91 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[see Note 8]:
Note 8. Acquisitions Fitbit In January 2021, we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, a leading wearables brand for $2.1 billion. The addition of Fitbit to Google Services is expected to help spur innovation in wearable devices. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at fair value. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. The purchase price was attributed to $440 million cash acquired, $590 million of intangible assets, $1.2 billion of goodwill and $92 million of net liabilities assumed. Goodwill was recorded in the Google Services segment and primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Other Acquisitions During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $885 million, net of cash acquired, of which the total amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $118 million. Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate. 74 ----------------- ------------- Alphabet Inc.

[See Note 12]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[See Note 18]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $119 million for both fiscal fiscal 2021 and 2020 related to operating -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2022 $ 108 2023 87 2024 68 2025 65 2026 60 Thereafter 216 Total lease liabilities $ 604 Less: Imputed interest 54 Present value 91 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[See Note 14]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97

[Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
Note 15. Financial Instruments and Risk Management 63

[Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 2. REVENUE Segment Information We report segment information based on the "management" approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Our Chief Executive Officer, the chief operating decision maker, reviews revenue and gross margin information for each of our reportable segments, but does not review operating expenses on a segment by segment basis. In addition, with the exception of goodwill, we do not identify or allocate our assets by the reportable segments. Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: *Digital Media--Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers. *Digital Experience--Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer 66 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. *Publishing and Advertising--Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web a...

[Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. The fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management's best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date. Fair values associated with the net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill were pending finalization as of the reporting date. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------------ --- - (dollars in millions) Amount Weighted Average Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. (2) Non-deductible for tax-purposes. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Frame.io acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. 70 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. Prior to our adoption of ASC 842 in fiscal 2020, operating lease expense was $170 million for fiscal 2019. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense is net of sublease income and includes variable lease costs, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. 91 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
Note 8. Acquisitions Fitbit In January 2021, we closed the acquisition of Fitbit, a leading wearables brand for $2.1 billion. The addition of Fitbit to Google Services is expected to help spur innovation in wearable devices. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at fair value. The purchase price excludes post acquisition compensation arrangements. The purchase price was attributed to $440 million cash acquired, $590 million of intangible assets, $1.2 billion of goodwill and $92 million of net liabilities assumed. Goodwill was recorded in the Google Services segment and primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Other Acquisitions During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately $885 million, net of cash acquired, of which the total amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately $118 million. Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate. 74 ----------------- ------------- Alphabet Inc.

[Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
Note 12 - Leases 90

[Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
NOTE 18. LEASES We lease certain facilities and data centers under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements that expire at various dates through 2031. We also have one land lease that expires in 2091. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees, material variable payment provisions or material restrictive covenants. Operating lease expense was $119 million for both fiscal 2021 and 2020. Prior to our adoption of ASC 842 in fiscal 2020, operating lease expense was $170 million for fiscal 2019. We recognized operating lease expense in cost of revenue and operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our operating lease expense is net of sublease income and includes variable lease costs, both of which are not material. Supplemental cash flow information for fiscal 2021 and 2020 related to operating leases was as follows: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - ---- ---- - -- (in millions) 2021 2020 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities $ 116 $ 99 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities $ 60 $ 52 The weighted-average remaining lease term and weighted-average discount rate for our operating lease liabilities as of December 3, 2021 were 8 years and 2.28%, respectively. As of December 3, 2021, the maturities of lease liabilities under operating leases were as follows: ---------------------------------- -------------------- --- (in millions) Fiscal Year Operating Leases (1) 2022 $ 108 2023 87 2024 68 2025 65 2026 60 Thereafter 216 Total lease liabilities $ 604 Less: Imputed interest 54 Present value of lease liabilities $ 550 _________________________________________ (1) Operating lease payments exclude $16 million of legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. 91 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

[Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements]:
Note 14 - Arrangements with Off-Balance Sheet Risk 97

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

[Part I, Item 1A]:
Item 1A. Risk Factors 21