================================================================================
CIK: 0000885725
Company Name: BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP
Filing Date: 2022-02-23
Form Type: 10-K
Extraction Date: 2025-09-02 04:49:23
================================================================================

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.

Cash, Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash and Restricted Cash Equivalents

Cash and Cash Equivalents

We record Cash and cash equivalents in our consolidated balance sheets at cost, which approximates fair value. Our policy is to invest excess cash in short-term marketable securities earning a market rate of interest without assuming undue risk of loss of principal amounts invested and we limit our direct exposure to securities in any one industry or issuer. We consider to be cash equivalents all short-term marketable securities with remaining days to maturity of 90 days or less from the purchase date that can be readily converted to cash.

Restricted Cash

Amounts included in restricted cash represent cash on hand required to be set aside by a contractual agreement related to receivable factoring arrangements and deferred compensation plans and are included in the Other current assets caption within our consolidated balance sheets. Generally, the restrictions related to the factoring arrangements lapse at the time we remit the
customer payments collected by us for servicing previously sold customer receivables to the purchaser. Restrictions for deferred compensation lapse when amounts are paid to the employee.

Restricted Cash EquivalentsRestricted cash equivalents primarily represent amounts paid into various qualified settlement funds related to our ongoing transvaginal surgical mesh litigation and current amounts related to our non-qualified pension plan and are included in the Other current assets caption within our consolidated balance sheets. The restrictions related to the various qualified settlement funds will lapse as we approve amounts payable to claimants, at which time we no longer have rights to a return of the amounts paid into the various qualified settlement funds. Restricted cash equivalents included in the Other long-term assets caption within our consolidated balance sheets are related to deferred compensation plans.

Concentrations of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and accounts and notes receivable. Our investment policy limits exposure to concentrations of credit risk and changes in market conditions. Counterparties to financial instruments expose us to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance. We transact our financial instruments with a diversified group of major financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings and actively monitor their credit ratings and our outstanding positions to limit our credit exposure. In the normal course, our payment terms with customers, including hospitals, healthcare agencies, clinics, doctors' offices and other private and governmental institutions, are typically 30 days in the U.S. but may be longer in international markets and generally do not require collateral.

We record credit loss reserves to Allowance for credit losses when we establish Trade accounts receivable if credit losses are expected over the asset's contractual life. We base our estimates of credit loss reserves on historical experience and adjust, as necessary, to reflect current conditions using reasonable and supportable forecasts not already reflected in the historical loss information. We utilize an accounts receivable aging approach to determine the reserve to record at accounts receivable commencement for certain customers, applying country or region-specific factors. In performing the assessment of outstanding accounts receivable, regardless of country or region, we may consider significant factors relevant to collectability, including those specific to a customer such as bankruptcy, lengthy average payment cycles and type of account.

We write-off amounts determined to be uncollectible against this reserve. We are not dependent on any single institution, and no single customer accounted for more than ten percent of our net sales in 2021, 2020 and 2019; however, large group purchasing organizations, hospital networks, international distributors and dealers and other buying groups have become increasingly important to our business and represent a substantial portion of our net sales. We closely monitor outstanding receivables for potential collection risks, including those that may arise from economic conditions, in both the U.S. and international economies. Our sales to government-owned or supported customers, particularly in southern Europe, are subject to an increased number of days outstanding prior to payment relative to other countries. More recently, the COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated an ongoing site-of-service trend of shifting procedure volumes in the U.S. toward non-hospital settings, particularly ambulatory surgery centers and office-based labs. Many of these customers are smaller than those we have historically done business with and may have more limited liquidity. We have adjusted our estimates of credit loss reserves for these customers, regions and conditions, as appropriate. We believe our Allowance for credit losses is adequate as of December 31, 2021; however, if significant changes were to occur in the payment practices of government customers, or if there is an increase in bankruptcies among our ambulatory surgery center customers, we may not be able to collect on receivables due to us from these customers, and our write-offs of uncollectible accounts may increase.

Revenue Recognition

We sell our products primarily through a direct sales force. In certain international markets, we sell our products through independent distributors or dealers. We consider revenue to be earned when all of the following criteria are met in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers:

•We have a contract with a customer that creates enforceable rights and obligations,
•Promised products or services are identified,
•The transaction price, or the amount we expect to receive, is determinable and
•We have transferred control of the promised items to the customer.
Transfer of control is evidenced upon passage of title and risk of loss to the customer unless we are required to provide additional services. We treat shipping and handling costs performed after a customer obtains control of the good as a fulfillment cost and record these costs as a selling expense when incurred. We recognize revenue from consignment arrangements based on product usage, or implant, which indicates that the sale is complete. We recognize a receivable at the point in time we have an unconditional right to payment. Payment terms are typically 30 days in the U.S. but may be longer in international markets.

Deferred Revenue

We record a contract liability, or deferred revenue, when we have an obligation to provide a product or service to the customer and payment is received or due in advance of our performance. When we sell a device with a future service obligation, we defer revenue on the unfulfilled performance obligation and recognize this revenue over the related service period. Many of our Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) product offerings combine the sale of a device with our LATITUDE™ Patient Management System, which represents a future service obligation. Generally, we do not have observable evidence of the standalone selling price related to our future service obligations; therefore, we estimate the selling price using an expected cost plus a margin approach. We allocate the transaction price using the relative standalone selling price method. The use of alternative estimates could result in a different amount of revenue deferral.

Contract liabilities are classified within Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Our contractual liabilities are primarily composed of deferred revenue related to the LATITUDE Patient Management System. Revenue is recognized over the average service period which is based on device and patient longevity. Our contractual liabilities also include deferred revenue related to the LUX-Dx™ Insertable Cardiac Monitor (ICM) system, also within our CRM business, for which revenue is recognized over the average service period based on device longevity and usage. We have elected not to disclose the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations when the original expected contract duration is one year or less. In addition, we have not identified material unfulfilled performance obligations for which revenue is not currently deferred.

Variable Consideration

We generally allow our customers to return defective, damaged and, in certain cases, expired products for credit. We base our estimate for sales returns upon historical trends and record the amount as a reduction to revenue when we sell the initial product. In addition, we may allow customers to return previously purchased products for next-generation product offerings. For these transactions, we defer recognition of revenue on the sale of the earlier generation product based upon an estimate of the amount of product to be returned when the next-generation products are shipped to the customer. Uncertain timing of next-generation product approvals, variability in product launch strategies, product recalls and variation in product utilization all affect our estimates related to sales returns and could cause actual returns to differ from these estimates.

We also offer sales rebates and discounts to certain customers. We treat sales rebates and discounts as a reduction of revenue and classify the corresponding liability as current. We estimate rebates for products where there is sufficient historical information available to predict the volume of expected future rebates. If we are unable to reasonably estimate the expected rebates, we record a liability for the maximum rebate percentage offered. We have entered certain agreements with group purchasing organizations to sell our products to participating hospitals at negotiated prices. We recognize revenue from these agreements following the same revenue recognition criteria discussed above.

Post-Implant Services

We provide non-contractual services to customers, where necessary, to ensure the safe and effective use of certain implanted devices. Because the revenue related to the immaterial services is recognized before they are delivered, we forward accrue the costs to provide these services at the time the devices are sold. We record these costs to Selling, general and administrative expenses within our consolidated statements of operations. We estimate the amount of time spent by our representatives performing these services and their compensation throughout the device life to determine the service cost. Changes to our business practice or the use of alternative estimates could result in a different amount of accrued cost.

Warranty Obligations

We offer warranties on certain of our product offerings. The majority of our warranty liability relates to implantable devices offered by our CRM business, which include implantable defibrillator and pacemaker systems. These products come with a standard limited warranty covering the replacement of these devices. We offer a full warranty for a portion of the period post-implant and a partial warranty for a period of time thereafter. We estimate the costs that we may incur under our warranty programs based on the number of units sold, historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims and cost per claim and record a liability equal to these estimated costs as cost of products sold at the time the product sale occurs. We assess the adequacy of our recorded warranty liabilities on a quarterly basis and adjust these amounts as necessary.

Inventories

We state inventories at the lower of first-in, first-out cost or net realizable value. We utilize a standard costing system, capitalizing variances between estimated and actual production costs during periods of normal production, and amortize to Cost of products sold over inventory turns. We expense manufacturing variances during periods of abnormal production, or less than 75 percent of manufacturing capacity. During 2020, we recorded $149 million of abnormal manufacturing variances attributable to lower production levels resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and lower than forecasted demand for our products. We did not record any abnormal production variances during the years ended December 31, 2021 or 2019.We base our provisions for excess, expired and obsolete inventory primarily on our estimates of forecasted net sales. A significant change in the timing or level of demand for our products as compared to forecasted amounts may result in recording additional provisions for excess, expired and obsolete inventory in the future. Further, the industry in which we participate is characterized by rapid product development and frequent new product introductions. Uncertain timing of next-generation product approvals, variability in product launch strategies, product recalls and variation in product utilization all affect our estimates related to excess, expired and obsolete inventory.
 149000000

Property, Plant and Equipment

We state property, plant, equipment and leasehold improvements at historical cost. We charge expenditures for maintenance and repairs to expense and capitalize additions and improvements that extend the life of the underlying asset. We provide for depreciation using the straight-line method at rates that approximate the estimated useful lives of the assets. We depreciate buildings over a maximum life of 40 years; building improvements over the remaining useful life of the building structure; equipment, furniture and fixtures over a three to seven year life; and leasehold improvements over the shorter of the useful life of the improvement or the term of the related lease.

Valuation of Business Combinations

We allocate the amounts we pay for each acquisition to the assets we acquire and liabilities we assume based on their fair values at the date of acquisition, including identifiable intangible assets and in-process research and development (IPR&D), which either arise from a contractual or legal right or are separable from goodwill. We base the fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination, including IPR&D, on detailed valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management, which consider management’s best estimates of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. We allocate to goodwill any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. Transaction costs associated with these acquisitions are expensed as incurred through Selling, general and administrative expenses.

In cases where we acquire a company in which we previously held an equity stake, we attribute a portion of the purchase price to the previously-held equity interest, which is implied based on the total purchase consideration allocable to each of the shareholders, including Boston Scientific, according to priority of equity interests. We record a gain or loss in Other, net equal to the difference between the implied fair value of our prior ownership and the book value immediately prior to the acquisition.

Where an acquisition involves a contingent consideration arrangement, we recognize a liability equal to the fair value of the contingent payments we expect to make as of the acquisition date. We re-measure this liability each reporting period and record changes in the fair value through Contingent consideration net expense (benefit) on our consolidated statements of operations. Increases or decreases in the fair value of the contingent consideration liability can result from changes in discount rates, periods, timing and amount of projected revenue or timing or likelihood of achieving regulatory, revenue or commercialization-based milestones. Payment of additional consideration is generally contingent on the acquired company reaching certain performance milestones after the acquisition date, including attaining specified revenue levels, achieving product development targets and/or obtaining regulatory approvals for products in development at the date of the acquisition.

Indefinite-lived Intangibles and IPR&D

Our indefinite-lived intangible assets, which are not subject to amortization, include acquired balloon and other technology, which are foundational to our ongoing operations within our Cardiovascular and MedSurg businesses, as well as IPR&D intangible assets acquired in a business combination. Our IPR&D represents intangible assets that are used in research and development activities but have not yet reached technological feasibility, regardless of whether they have alternative future use.
The primary basis for determining the technological feasibility or completion of these projects is obtaining regulatory approval to market the underlying products in an applicable geographic region. We classify IPR&D as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. Upon completion of the associated research and development efforts, we will determine the useful life of the technology and begin amortizing the assets to reflect their use over their remaining lives. Upon permanent abandonment, we write-off the remaining carrying amount of the associated IPR&D intangible asset.

We test our indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually during the third quarter for impairment and reassess their classification as indefinite-lived assets. In addition, we review our indefinite-lived intangible assets for classification and impairment more frequently if impairment indicators exist. We assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that our indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired, we then determine the fair value of the intangible asset and perform the quantitative impairment test by comparing the fair value with the carrying value in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset, we write the carrying value down to the fair value.

We use the income approach to determine the fair values of our IPR&D. We base our revenue assumptions on estimates of relevant market sizes, expected market growth rates, expected trends in technology and expected levels of market share. In arriving at the value of the in-process projects, we consider, among other factors, the in-process projects’ stage of completion, the complexity of the work completed as of the acquisition date, the costs already incurred, the projected costs to complete, the contribution of other acquired assets, the expected regulatory path and introduction dates by region and the estimated useful life of the technology. See Note D – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for more information related to indefinite-lived intangibles, including IPR&D.For asset purchases outside of business combinations, we expense any purchased research and development assets as of the acquisition date.

Amortization and Impairment of Intangible Assets

We record definite-lived intangible assets at historical cost and amortize them over their estimated useful lives. We use a straight-line method of amortization, unless a method that better reflects the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible asset are consumed or otherwise used up can be reliably determined. The approximate useful lives for amortization of our intangible assets are as follows: patents and licenses, two to 20 years; amortizable technology-related and customer relationships, five to 25 years; other intangible assets, various.

We review intangible assets subject to amortization quarterly to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment or a change in the remaining useful life. Conditions that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate that could affect the value of an asset, a product recall or an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. If we determine it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired based on our qualitative assessment of impairment indicators, we test the intangible asset for recoverability. For purposes of the recoverability test, we group our amortizable intangible assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows if the intangible asset does not generate cash flows independent of other assets and liabilities. If the carrying value of the intangible asset or asset group exceeds the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the intangible asset or asset group, we will write the carrying value down to fair value in the period impairment is identified.

We calculate fair value of our intangible assets as the present value of estimated future cash flows we expect to generate from the asset. In determining our estimated future cash flows associated with our intangible assets, we use estimates and assumptions about future revenue contributions, cost structures and remaining useful lives of the asset or asset group. See Note D – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for more information related to impairments of intangible assets.For patents developed internally, we capitalize costs incurred to obtain patents, including attorney fees, registration fees, consulting fees and other expenditures directly related to securing the patent.

Goodwill Valuation

We allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination to goodwill. We test our goodwill balances in the second quarter of each year as of April 1 for
impairment, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest an impairment may exist.

We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, referred to as a component. For our 2021 annual impairment assessment, we identified the following reporting units: Interventional Cardiology, Peripheral Interventions, Cardiac Rhythm Management, Electrophysiology, Endoscopy, Urology and Pelvic Health and Neuromodulation. For purposes of the goodwill impairment test, we aggregated the Cardiac Rhythm Management and Electrophysiology reporting units, components of the Rhythm Management operating segment, based on the criteria prescribed in FASB ASC Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other.In the second quarter of 2021, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test utilizing the quantitative assessment approach to test all of our reporting units. We determined that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and concluded that goodwill was not impaired or at risk of impairment.

Investments in Publicly Traded and Privately-Held Entities

For publicly-held equity securities for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence, we measure at fair value with changes in fair value recognized currently in Other, net within our accompanying consolidated statements of operations. For privately-held equity securities for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence, we apply the measurement alternative approach and measure these investments at cost minus impairment, if any, adjusted to fair value for any observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. We account for investments in entities for which we have the ability to exercise significant influence under the equity method if we hold 50 percent or less of the voting stock and the entity is not a VIE in which we are the primary beneficiary in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 323, Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures. We record these investments initially at cost and adjust the carrying amount to reflect our share of the earnings or losses of the investee, including all adjustments similar to those made in preparing consolidated financial statements. Lastly, we have notes receivable from certain companies that we account for in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 320, Investments - Debt and Equity Securities. Refer to Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments for additional details on our investment balances.

Each reporting period, we evaluate our investments to determine if there are any events or circumstances that are likely to have a significant adverse effect on the fair value of the investment. Examples of such impairment indicators include, but are not limited to, a significant deterioration in earnings performance, recent financing rounds at reduced valuations, a significant adverse change in the regulatory, economic or technological environment of an investee or a significant doubt about an investee’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we identify an impairment indicator, we will estimate the fair value of the investment and compare it to its carrying value. Our estimation of fair value considers financial information related to the investee available to us, including valuations based on recent third-party equity investments in the investee. For our investments for which we apply the measurement alternative, if the fair value of the investment is less than its carrying value, the investment is impaired and we recognize an impairment loss equal to the difference between an investment’s carrying value and its fair value. For our equity method investments, if we determine an impairment is other-than-temporary, we recognize an impairment loss equal to the difference between an investment’s carrying value and its fair value. We deem an impairment to be other-than-temporary unless available evidence indicates that the valuation is more likely than not to recover up to the carrying value of the investment in a reasonable period of time, and we have both the ability and intent to hold the investment for at least the period of time needed to recover the value. Net gains and losses and impairments associated with our investment portfolio are included in Other, net in our consolidated statements of operations.

Income Taxes

We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of our assets and liabilities. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when we expect the differences to reverse. We reduce our deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if, based upon the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that we will not realize some portion or all of the deferred tax assets. We consider relevant evidence, both positive and negative, to determine the need for a valuation allowance. Information evaluated includes our financial position and results of operations for the current and preceding years, the availability of deferred tax liabilities and tax carrybacks, as well as estimates of the impact of future taxable income and available prudent and feasible tax-planning strategies. We recognize interest and penalties related to income taxes as a component of income tax expense. As part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), we are subject to a territorial tax system in which we are required to establish an accounting policy in providing for tax on Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (GILTI) earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. We have elected to treat the impact of GILTI as a period cost and report it as part of continuing operations. See Note J – Income Taxes for further information and discussion of our income tax provision and balances including a discussion of the impacts of the TCJA

Legal and Product Liability Costs

In the normal course of business, we are involved in various legal and regulatory proceedings, including intellectual property, breach of contract, securities and product liability litigation. In some cases, the claimants seek damages, as well as other relief, which, if granted, could require significant expenditures or impact our ability to sell our products. We are also the subject of certain governmental investigations, which could result in substantial fines, penalties and administrative remedies. We maintain an insurance policy providing limited coverage against securities claims, and we are substantially self-insured with respect to product liability claims and fully self-insured with respect to intellectual property infringement claims. We accrue anticipated costs of settlement, damages, losses for product liability claims and, under certain conditions, costs of defense, based on historical experience or to the extent specific losses are probable and estimable. Otherwise, we expense these costs as incurred. If the estimate of a probable loss is a range and no amount within the range is more likely, we accrue the minimum amount of the range. We analyze litigation settlements to identify each element of the arrangement. We allocate arrangement consideration to patent licenses received based on estimates of fair value and capitalize these amounts as assets if the license will provide an ongoing future benefit. We record certain legal and product liability charges, credits and costs of defense, which we consider to be unusual or infrequent and significant as Litigation-related charges (credits) in our consolidated statements of operations; all other legal and product liability charges, credits and costs are recorded within Selling, general and administrative expenses within our consolidated statements of operations. See Note K – Commitments and Contingencies for discussion of our individual material legal proceedings.

Costs Associated with Exit Activities

We record employee termination costs in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 712, Compensation - Nonretirement and Postemployment Benefits, if we pay the benefits as part of an ongoing benefit arrangement, which includes benefits provided as part of our established severance policies or that we provide in accordance with international statutory requirements. We accrue employee termination costs associated with an ongoing benefit arrangement if the obligation is attributable to prior services rendered, the rights to the benefits have vested, the payment is probable and we can reasonably estimate the liability. We account for involuntary employee termination benefits that represent a one-time benefit in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations. We record such costs into expense over the employee’s future service period, if any.

Other costs associated with exit activities may include contract termination costs and consulting fees, which are expensed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 420 and are included in Restructuring net charges (credits) in our consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, costs directly related to our active restructuring initiatives, including program management costs, accelerated depreciation, fixed asset write-offs and costs to transfer product lines among facilities are included within Costs of products sold and Selling, general and administrative expenses within our consolidated statements of operations. Impairment of right of use lease assets and lease termination costs directly related to our active restructuring initiatives are expensed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 842 and included within Costs of products sold or Selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of operations. See Note H – Restructuring-related Activities for further information and discussion of our restructuring plans.

Translation of Foreign Currency

We translate all assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries from the functional currency, which is generally the local currency, into U.S. dollars using the year-end exchange rate. We show the net effect of these translation adjustments in our consolidated financial statements as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. We translate revenues and expenses at the average exchange rates in effect during the year. For any significant foreign subsidiaries located in highly inflationary economies, we would re-measure their financial statements as if the functional currency were the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are included in Other, net in our consolidated statements of operations, net of losses and gains from any related derivative financial instruments.

Financial Instruments

We recognize all derivative financial instruments in our consolidated financial statements at fair value in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and we present assets and liabilities associated with our derivative financial instruments on a gross basis in our financial statements. In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815, for those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, the hedging instrument must be designated, based upon the exposure being hedged, as a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it qualifies for, and has been designated as part of a hedging relationship, as well as on the type of hedging relationship. Our derivative instruments do not subject our earnings to material risk, as gains and losses on these derivatives generally offset gains and losses on the item being hedged, and we do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes. Refer to Note E – Hedging Activities and Fair Value Measurements for more information on our hedging instruments.

 Shipping and Handling CostsWe generally do not bill customers for shipping and handling of our products. We treat shipping costs incurred after a customer obtains control of the good as a fulfillment cost and record in Selling, general and administrative expenses within our consolidated statements of operations. Shipping costs were $194 million in 2021, $146 million in 2020 and $144 million in 2019
 194000000
 146000000
 144000000

Research and Development

We expense research and development (R&D) costs, including new product development programs, regulatory compliance and clinical research as incurred. Refer to Indefinite-lived Intangibles and IPR&D above for our policy regarding R&D projects acquired in connection with our business combinations and asset purchases.

NOTE B – ACQUISITIONS AND STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS

Our consolidated financial statements include the operating results for acquired entities from the respective dates of acquisition. We completed four acquisitions and one divestiture in 2021 and did not complete any material acquisitions during 2020. We have not presented supplemental pro forma financial information for any of our recent acquisitions given their results are not material to our consolidated financial statements.

On February 14, 2022, we completed our acquisition of Baylis Medical Company Inc. (Baylis Medical), a privately-held company which has developed the radiofrequency (RF) NRG™ and VersaCross™ Transseptal Platforms as well as a family of guidewires, sheaths and dilators used to support left heart access, which will expand our electrophysiology and structural heart product portfolios. The transaction consisted of an upfront cash payment using cash on hand of $1.750 billion subject to closing adjustments. We plan to integrate the Baylis Medical business into our Electrophysiology division, supported by our structural heart sales force.

2021 Acquisitions

On March 1, 2021, we completed our acquisition of the remaining shares of Preventice Solutions, Inc. (Preventice), a privately-held company which offers a full portfolio of mobile cardiac health solutions and services, ranging from ambulatory cardiac monitors, to cardiac event monitors and mobile cardiac telemetry. The transaction consisted of an upfront cash payment of $925 million and up to an additional $300 million in a potential commercial milestone payment. We had been an investor in Preventice since 2015 and held an equity stake of approximately 22 percent immediately prior to the acquisition date. We remeasured the fair value of our previously-held investment based on the allocation of the purchase price according to priority of equity interests, which resulted in a $196 million gain recognized within Other, net. The transaction price for the remaining stake consisted of an upfront cash payment of $706 million, net of cash acquired, and up to approximately $230 million in future milestone payments. The Preventice business is being managed by our Cardiac Rhythm Management division.
On August 6, 2021, we completed our acquisition of the remaining shares of Farapulse, Inc. (Farapulse), a privately-held company that has developed a non-thermal ablation system for the treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF) and other cardiac arrhythmias. The transaction consisted of an upfront cash payment of $450 million, up to $125 million upon achievement of certain clinical and regulatory milestones and additional revenue-based payments over the next three years. We had been an investor in Farapulse since 2014 and held an equity stake of approximately 27 percent immediately prior to the acquisition date. We remeasured the fair value of our previously-held investment based on the allocation of the purchase price according to priority of equity interests which resulted in a $222 million gain recognized within Other, net. The transaction price for the remaining stake consisted of an upfront cash payment of $268 million, net of cash acquired, and up to approximately $92 million in future milestone payments. The Farapulse business is being integrated into our Electrophysiology division.

On September 1, 2021, we completed our acquisition of the global surgical business of Lumenis LTD. (Lumenis), a privately-held company that develops and commercializes energy-based medical solutions, including innovative laser systems, fibers and accessories used for urology and otolaryngology procedures. The transaction consisted of an upfront cash payment of $1.032 billion, net of cash acquired. The Lumenis business is being integrated into our Urology and Pelvic Health division.

On November 8, 2021, we completed our acquisition of the remaining shares of Devoro Medical, Inc. (Devoro Medical), a privately-held company which has developed the WOLF Thrombectomy® Platform, a non-console and lytic-free platform designed to rapidly capture and extract blood clots in arterial, venous and pulmonary embolism procedures. The transaction consisted of an upfront cash payment of $320 million and up to $80 million upon achievement of certain clinical and regulatory milestones. We had been an investor in Devoro Medical since 2019 and held an equity stake of approximately 16 percent. We remeasured the fair value of our previously held investment based on the allocation of the purchase price according to priority of equity interests which resulted in a $57 million gain recognized within Other, net. The transaction price for the remaining stake consisted of an upfront cash payment of $251 million, net of cash acquired, and up to approximately $67 million in future milestone payments. The Devoro Medical business is being integrated into our Peripheral Interventions division.

Purchase Price Allocation

The preliminary purchase price for the acquisitions completed during 2021 were comprised of the components presented below, which represent the preliminary determination of the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The final determination of the fair value of certain assets and liabilities will be completed within the measurement period in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 805, Business Combinations.

(in millions) Preventice Lumenis All Other Total
--------------------------------------------- ---------- ------- --------- ----- ----- --- ----- -----
Payment for acquisition, net of cash acquired $ 706 $ 1,032 $ 519 $ 2,258
Fair value of contingent consideration 221 — 218 440
Fair value of prior interest 269 — 287 556
 $ 1,197 $ 1,032 $ 1,025 $ 3,254

The preliminary purchase price allocation for these acquisitions was comprised of the following components:

(in millions) Preventice Lumenis All Other Total
---------------------------------- ---------- ------- --------- ----- ----- --- ----- -----
Goodwill $ 926 $ 544 $ 594 $ 2,064
Amortizable intangible assets 237 423 465 1,125
Indefinite-lived intangible assets — 69 43 112
Other assets acquired 65 115 9 190
Liabilities assumed (32) (101) (11) (144)
Net deferred tax liabilities — (18) (75) (93)
 $ 1,197 $ 1,032 $ 1,025 $ 3,254

Goodwill was primarily established due to synergies expected to be gained from leveraging our existing operations, as well as revenue and cash flow projections associated with future technologies and is not deductible for tax purposes.
We allocated a portion of the preliminary purchase price to the specific intangible asset categories as follows:

Amount Assigned(in millions) Weighted Average Amortization Period(in years) Risk-Adjusted Discount Rates used in Purchase Price Allocation
------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------- --- --- - ---
Preventice:
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 215 9 10%
Other intangible assets 22 8 10%
 $ 237
Lumenis:
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 388 12 11%
Other intangible assets 35 11 11%
Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
In-process research and development (IPR&D) 69 N/A 12%
 $ 492
All Other:
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 465 12 16% - 17%
Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
In-process research and development (IPR&D) 43 N/A 17%
 $ 508

2021 Divestiture

On March 1, 2021, we completed the divestiture of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business to Stark International Lux S.A.R.L., and SERB SAS, affiliates of SERB, a European specialty pharmaceutical group, for a purchase price of approximately $800 million. The agreement included the transfer of five facilities and approximately 280 employees globally.

We classified the assets and liabilities of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business (disposal group) as held for sale within our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020 at their respective carrying values, which approximated fair value, less costs to sell. Assets within the disposal group are presented within Assets held for sale and liabilities are presented within Other current liabilities within our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020. Refer to Note C – Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale for additional information.

2019 Acquisitions

BTG plc

On August 19, 2019, we completed our acquisition of BTG plc (BTG), a public company organized under the laws of England and Wales. BTG had three key portfolios, the largest of which is its interventional medicine portfolio (Interventional Medicine) that encompasses interventional oncology therapeutic technologies for patients with liver and kidney cancers, as well as a vascular portfolio for treatment of deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, deep venous obstruction and superficial venous disease. Following the closing of the acquisition, we integrated BTG's Interventional Medicine business into our Peripheral Interventions division.

In addition to the Interventional Medicine product lines, the BTG portfolio also included the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business, comprised of acute care antidotes to treat overexposure to certain medications and toxins. On March 1, 2021, we completed the divestiture of Specialty Pharmaceuticals for a purchase price of approximately $800 million. Refer to Note C – Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale for additional information.
The BTG portfolio further included a licensing portfolio (Licensing arrangements) that generated net royalties related to BTG intellectual property and product license agreements. In connection with the acquisition, we acquired rights to future royalties associated with the Zytiga™ Drug used to treat certain forms of prostate cancer. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we sold our rights to these royalties for $256 million in cash, included in Proceeds from royalty rights transfer in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Refer to Note E – Hedging Activities and Fair Value Measurements for additional information.

The transaction price for the acquisition of BTG consisted of upfront cash in the aggregate amount of £3.312 billion (or $4.023 billion based on the exchange rate at closing on August 19, 2019) for the entire issued ordinary share capital of BTG, whereby BTG stockholders received 840 pence (or $10.20 based on the exchange rate at closing) in cash for each BTG share. The transaction price included $404 million of cash and cash equivalents acquired. We implemented our acquisition of BTG by way of a court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006, as amended.

Purchase Price Allocation

We accounted for the acquisition of BTG as a business combination, and in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, (FASB ASC Topic 805), we recorded the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. The final purchase price was comprised of the following components:

(in millions)
--------------------------------------------- - -----
Payment for acquisition, net of cash acquired $ 3,619

The final purchase price allocation was comprised of the following components:
(in millions)
---------------------------------------------- ----- -----
Goodwill $ 1,635
Trade accounts receivable, net 108
Inventories 232
Other current assets 252
Other intangible assets, net 1,785
Other long-term assets 538
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities (308)
Other long-term liabilities (274)
Deferred tax liability (349)
 $ 3,619

We allocated a portion of the purchase price to the specific intangible asset categories as follows:
Amount Assigned(in millions) Amortization Period(in years) Risk-Adjusted Discount Rates used in Purchase Price Allocation
------------------------------ ----------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------- -- -- --- -- - - ---
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 1,709 10 - 18 11 % - 12%
Other intangible assets 75 2 - 11 11%
 $ 1,785

We recognized goodwill of $1.635 billion, which is attributable to the synergies expected to arise from the acquisition and revenue and cash flow projections associated with future technologies. We allocated $1.399 billion to our Peripheral Interventions reporting unit and $236 million to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals reporting unit. In 2020, we recorded Goodwill impairment charges of $73 million related to the execution of a definitive agreement to sell our Specialty Pharmaceuticals business. Refer to Note D – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for additional information.
Vertiflex, Inc.

On June 11, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Vertiflex, Inc. (Vertiflex), a privately-held company which developed and commercialized the Superion™ Indirect Decompression System, a minimally-invasive device used to improve physical function and reduce pain in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). The transaction price consisted of an upfront cash payment of $465 million and contingent payments that are based on a percentage of Vertiflex sales growth in the first three years following the acquisition close. At the time of acquisition, we estimated the sales-based contingent payments to be in a range of zero to $100 million; however, the payments are uncapped over the three year earn-out period. Through December 31, 2021, we have made incremental payments of $20 million to the prior shareholders of Vertiflex in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Following the closing of the acquisition, we integrated the Vertiflex business into our Neuromodulation division.

Millipede, Inc.

On January 29, 2019, we completed our acquisition of Millipede, Inc. (Millipede), a privately-held company that has developed the IRIS Transcatheter Annuloplasty Ring System for the treatment of severe mitral regurgitation. We were an investor in Millipede since the first quarter of 2018 as part of an investment and acquisition option agreement, whereby we purchased a portion of the outstanding shares of Millipede, along with newly issued shares of the company, for an upfront cash payment of $90 million. In the fourth quarter of 2018, upon the successful completion of a first-in-human clinical study, we exercised our option to acquire the remaining shares of Millipede. We held an interest of approximately 20 percent immediately prior to the acquisition date. We remeasured the fair value of our previously-held investment based on the implied enterprise value and allocation of purchase price consideration according to priority of equity interests. The transaction price for the remaining stake consisted of an upfront cash payment of $325 million and up to an additional $125 million payment upon achievement of a commercial milestone. During 2021, we cancelled the Millipede mitral valve IPR&D program, recording intangible asset impairment charges of $242 million, and a contingent consideration benefit of $104 million for milestones that would not be achieved due to the cancellation of the program due to the time and financial investment required to commercialize the platform.

Purchase Price Allocation

We accounted for the acquisitions of Vertiflex and Millipede as business combinations, and in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 805, we recorded the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their respective fair values as of the acquisition dates. The final purchase prices were comprised of the following components:

(in millions)
----------------------------------------------- --- ---
Payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired $ 763
Fair value of contingent consideration 127
Fair value of prior interests 102
 $ 992

The final combined purchase price allocation was comprised of the following components:

(in millions)
---------------------------------- ---- ---
Goodwill $ 577
Amortizable intangible assets 220
Indefinite-lived intangible assets 240
Other assets acquired 24
Liabilities assumed (12)
Net deferred tax liabilities (58)
 $ 992

We allocated a portion of the combined purchase price to the specific intangible asset categories as follows:
Amount Assigned(in millions) Amortization Period(in years) Risk-Adjusted Discount Rates used in Purchase Price Allocation
----------------------------------- ----------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------- --- ---
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 210 12 15%
Other intangible assets 10 12 15%
Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
In-process research and development 240 N/A 19%
 $ 461

Our technology-related intangible assets consist of technical processes, intellectual property and institutional understanding with respect to products and processes that we intend to leverage in future products or processes and will carry forward from one product generation to the next. We used the multi-period excess earnings method, a form of the income approach, to derive the fair value of the technology-related intangible assets and are amortizing them on a straight-line basis over their assigned estimated useful lives.

Goodwill was primarily established due to synergies expected to be gained from leveraging our existing operations, as well as revenue and cash flow projections associated with future technologies. The goodwill recorded relating to our acquisitions is not deductible for tax purposes.

Contingent Consideration

Changes in the fair value of our contingent consideration liability were as follows:
(in millions)
---------------------------------------------------- ----- ---
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ 354
Contingent consideration net expense (benefit) (100)
Contingent consideration payments (58)
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 196
Amount recorded related to current year acquisitions 440
Contingent consideration net expense (benefit) (136)
Contingent consideration payments (15)
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 486

As of December 31, 2021, the maximum amount of future contingent consideration (undiscounted) that we could be required to pay associated with our prior acquisitions was $986 million, which includes amounts related to our recently completed acquisitions of Preventice, Farapulse and Devoro Medical.

The net benefits of $136 million and $100 million recorded in 2021 and 2020, respectively, related to a reduction in the contingent consideration liability for certain prior acquisitions for which we reduced the probability of achievement of associated revenue and/or regulatory milestones upon which payment is conditioned, or, in the case of Millipede and nVision, for milestones that would not be achieved due to management's discontinuation of the associated R&D program.
The recurring Level 3 fair value measurements of our contingent consideration liability that we expect to be required to settle include the following significant unobservable inputs:

Contingent Consideration Liability Fair Value as of December 31, 2021 Valuation Technique Unobservable Input Range Weighted Average(1)
------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------ ----- ------------------- -- --- --
R&D, Regulatory and Commercialization-based Milestones $143 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 1% 2% 1%
Probability of Payment 80% 95% 92%
Projected Year of Payment 2022 2024 2023
Revenue-based Payments $343 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 4 % - 14% 6%
Probability of Payment 100 % - 100% 100%
Projected Year of Payment 2021 - 2024 2022

(1)    Unobservable inputs were weighted by the relative fair value of the contingent consideration liability. For projected year of payment, the amount represents the median of the inputs and is not a weighted average.

Projected contingent payment amounts related to our R&D, regulatory and commercialization-based and revenue-based milestones are discounted back to the current period, primarily using a discounted cash flow model. Significant increases or decreases in projected revenues, probabilities of payment, discount rates or the time until payment is made would have resulted in a significantly lower or higher fair value measurement as of December 31, 2021.

Strategic Investments

The aggregate carrying amount of our strategic investments was comprised of the following:

As of December 31,
-------------------------------------- ---- ---- --- ---
(in millions) 2021 2020
Equity method investments $ 259 $ 319
Measurement alternative investments(1) 142 183
Publicly-held securities(2) 10 414
Notes receivable — 2
 $ 412 $ 918

(1)    Measurement alternative investments are privately-held equity securities without readily determinable fair values that are measured at cost less impairment, if any, adjusted to fair value for any observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer, recognized in Other, net within our accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
(2)    Publicly-held equity securities are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in Other, net within our consolidated statements of operations.

These investments are classified as Other long-term assets within our consolidated balance sheets, in accordance with U.S. GAAP and our accounting policies.We recorded a $178 million loss in 2021 and a $363 million gain in 2020 on our investment in Pulmonx Corporation presented in Other, net associated with the remeasurement of our investment during the period to fair value based on observable market prices, as well as the disposition of our remaining ownership during 2021. As of December 31, 2021, the cost of our aggregated equity method investments exceeded our share of the underlying equity in net assets by $289 million, which represents amortizable intangible assets, IPR&D, goodwill and deferred tax liabilities.
 1750000000
 925000000
 300000000
 0.22
 196000000
 706000000
 230000000
 450000000
 125000000
 P3Y
 0.27
 222000000
 268000000
 92000000
 1032000000.000
 320000000
 80000000
 0.16
 57000000
 251000000
 67000000
 The final determination of the fair value of certain assets and liabilities will be completed within the measurement period in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 805, Business Combinations.
(in millions) Preventice Lumenis All Other Total
--------------------------------------------- ---------- ------- --------- ----- ----- --- ----- -----
Payment for acquisition, net of cash acquired $ 706 $ 1,032 $ 519 $ 2,258
Fair value of contingent consideration 221 — 218 440
Fair value of prior interest 269 — 287 556
 $ 1,197 $ 1,032 $ 1,025 $ 3,254

 706000000
 1032000000
 519000000
 2258000000
 221000000
 0
 218000000
 440000000
 269000000
 0
 287000000
 556000000
 1197000000
 1032000000
 1025000000
 3254000000

The preliminary purchase price allocation for these acquisitions was comprised of the following components:

(in millions) Preventice Lumenis All Other Total
---------------------------------- ---------- ------- --------- ----- ----- --- ----- -----
Goodwill $ 926 $ 544 $ 594 $ 2,064
Amortizable intangible assets 237 423 465 1,125
Indefinite-lived intangible assets — 69 43 112
Other assets acquired 65 115 9 190
Liabilities assumed (32) (101) (11) (144)
Net deferred tax liabilities — (18) (75) (93)
 $ 1,197 $ 1,032 $ 1,025 $ 3,254

 926000000
 544000000
 594000000
 2064000000
 237000000
 423000000
 465000000
 1125000000
 0
 69000000
 43000000
 112000000
 65000000
 115000000
 9000000
 190000000
 32000000
 101000000
 11000000
 144000000
 0
 18000000
 75000000
 93000000
 1197000000
 1032000000
 1025000000
 3254000000

We allocated a portion of the preliminary purchase price to the specific intangible asset categories as follows:

Amount Assigned(in millions) Weighted Average Amortization Period(in years) Risk-Adjusted Discount Rates used in Purchase Price Allocation
------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------- --- --- - ---
Preventice:
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 215 9 10%
Other intangible assets 22 8 10%
 $ 237
Lumenis:
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 388 12 11%
Other intangible assets 35 11 11%
Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
In-process research and development (IPR&D) 69 N/A 12%
 $ 492
All Other:
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 465 12 16% - 17%
Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
In-process research and development (IPR&D) 43 N/A 17%
 $ 508

 215000000
 P9Y
 0.10
 22000000
 P8Y
 0.10
 237000000
 388000000
 P12Y
 0.11
 35000000
 P11Y
 0.11
 69000000
 0.12
 492000000
 465000000
 P12Y
 0.16
 0.17
 43000000
 0.17
 508000000
 800000000
 5
 280
 800000000
 256000000
 3312000000
 4023000000.000
 8.40
 10.20
 404000000
 The final purchase price was comprised of the following components:
(in millions)
--------------------------------------------- - -----
Payment for acquisition, net of cash acquired $ 3,619

 3619000000
 The final purchase price allocation was comprised of the following components:
(in millions)
---------------------------------------------- ----- -----
Goodwill $ 1,635
Trade accounts receivable, net 108
Inventories 232
Other current assets 252
Other intangible assets, net 1,785
Other long-term assets 538
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities (308)
Other long-term liabilities (274)
Deferred tax liability (349)
 $ 3,619

 1635000000
 108000000
 232000000
 252000000
 1785000000
 538000000
 308000000
 274000000
 349000000
 3619000000
 We allocated a portion of the purchase price to the specific intangible asset categories as follows:
Amount Assigned(in millions) Amortization Period(in years) Risk-Adjusted Discount Rates used in Purchase Price Allocation
------------------------------ ----------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------- -- -- --- -- - - ---
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 1,709 10 - 18 11 % - 12%
Other intangible assets 75 2 - 11 11%
 $ 1,785

 1709000000
 P10Y
 P18Y
 0.11
 0.12
 75000000
 P2Y
 P11Y
 0.11
 1785000000
 1635000000
 1399000000
 236000000
 73000000
 465000000
 0
 100000000
 20000000
 90000000
 0.20
 325000000
 125000000
 242000000
 104000000
 The final purchase prices were comprised of the following components:
(in millions)
----------------------------------------------- --- ---
Payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired $ 763
Fair value of contingent consideration 127
Fair value of prior interests 102
 $ 992

 763000000
 127000000
 102000000
 992000000

The final combined purchase price allocation was comprised of the following components:

(in millions)
---------------------------------- ---- ---
Goodwill $ 577
Amortizable intangible assets 220
Indefinite-lived intangible assets 240
Other assets acquired 24
Liabilities assumed (12)
Net deferred tax liabilities (58)
 $ 992

 577000000
 220000000
 240000000
 24000000
 12000000
 58000000
 992000000
 We allocated a portion of the combined purchase price to the specific intangible asset categories as follows:
Amount Assigned(in millions) Amortization Period(in years) Risk-Adjusted Discount Rates used in Purchase Price Allocation
----------------------------------- ----------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------- --- ---
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 210 12 15%
Other intangible assets 10 12 15%
Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
In-process research and development 240 N/A 19%
 $ 461

 210000000
 P12Y
 0.15
 10000000
 P12Y
 0.15
 240000000
 0.19
 461000000
 Changes in the fair value of our contingent consideration liability were as follows:
(in millions)
---------------------------------------------------- ----- ---
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ 354
Contingent consideration net expense (benefit) (100)
Contingent consideration payments (58)
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 196
Amount recorded related to current year acquisitions 440
Contingent consideration net expense (benefit) (136)
Contingent consideration payments (15)
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 486

 354000000
 -100000000
 58000000
 196000000
 440000000
 -136000000
 15000000
 486000000
 986000000
 -136000000
 -100000000

The recurring Level 3 fair value measurements of our contingent consideration liability that we expect to be required to settle include the following significant unobservable inputs:

Contingent Consideration Liability Fair Value as of December 31, 2021 Valuation Technique Unobservable Input Range Weighted Average(1)
------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------ ----- ------------------- -- --- --
R&D, Regulatory and Commercialization-based Milestones $143 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 1% 2% 1%
Probability of Payment 80% 95% 92%
Projected Year of Payment 2022 2024 2023
Revenue-based Payments $343 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 4 % - 14% 6%
Probability of Payment 100 % - 100% 100%
Projected Year of Payment 2021 - 2024 2022

(1)    Unobservable inputs were weighted by the relative fair value of the contingent consideration liability. For projected year of payment, the amount represents the median of the inputs and is not a weighted average.
 143000000
 0.01
 0.02
 0.01
 0.80
 0.95
 0.92
 343000000
 0.04
 0.14
 0.06
 1
 1
 1

The aggregate carrying amount of our strategic investments was comprised of the following:

As of December 31,
-------------------------------------- ---- ---- --- ---
(in millions) 2021 2020
Equity method investments $ 259 $ 319
Measurement alternative investments(1) 142 183
Publicly-held securities(2) 10 414
Notes receivable — 2
 $ 412 $ 918

(1)    Measurement alternative investments are privately-held equity securities without readily determinable fair values that are net within our accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
(2)    Publicly-held equity securities are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in Other, net within our consolidated statements of operations.
 259000000
 319000000
 142000000
 183000000
 10000000
 414000000
 0
 2000000
 412000000
 918000000
 -178000000
 363000000
 289000000

NOTE C – ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE

On December 1, 2020, we announced the execution of a definitive agreement pursuant to which we agreed to sell our Specialty Pharmaceuticals business to Stark International Lux S.A.R.L., and SERB SAS, affiliates of SERB, a European specialty pharmaceutical group. On March 1, 2021, we completed the divestiture for a purchase price of approximately $800 million, which was subject to certain adjustments including cash on hand at the closing of the transaction. The agreement included the transfer of five facilities and approximately 280 employees globally.
We classified the assets and liabilities of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business (disposal group) as held for sale within our consolidated balance are presented within Other current liabilities within our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020.The carrying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities of the disposal group as of December 31, 2020 are presented below:
(in millions) As of December 31, 2020
--------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- -----
Cash $ 37
Trade accounts receivable, net 24
Inventories 79
Other current assets 17
Goodwill 175
Other intangible assets, net 758
Other long-term assets 45
Assets held for sale $ 1,133
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities $ 25
Other long-term liabilities 27
Deferred tax liability 148
Liabilities held for sale included in Other current liabilities $ 200
In addition, as of December 31, 2020, we had foreign currency translation adjustments of $107 million contained within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax attributable to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business that were released upon the closing of the transaction.
 800000000
 5
 280
 The carrying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities of the disposal group as of December 31, 2020 are presented below:
(in millions) As of December 31, 2020
--------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- -----
Cash $ 37
Trade accounts receivable, net 24
Inventories 79
Other current assets 17
Goodwill 175
Other intangible assets, net 758
Other long-term assets 45
Assets held for sale $ 1,133
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities $ 25
Other long-term liabilities 27
Deferred tax liability 148
Liabilities held for sale included in Other current liabilities $ 200

 37000000
 24000000
 79000000
 17000000
 175000000
 758000000
 45000000
 1133000000
 25000000
 27000000
 148000000
 200000000
 107000000

NOTE D – GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

The gross carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and the related accumulated amortization for intangible assets subject to amortization and accumulated goodwill impairment charges are as follows:

 As of December 31, 2021 As of December 31, 2020
---------------------------------- ----------------------- ------------------------------------- --------------------- ---------------------------------- - ------ - -------
(in millions) Gross Carrying Amount AccumulatedAmortization/Write-offs(1) Gross Carrying Amount AccumulatedAmortization/Write-offs
Technology-related $ 11,957 $ (6,754) $ 11,059 $ (6,179)
Patents 494 (398) 511 (407)
Other intangible assets 1,900 (1,325) 1,775 (1,220)
Amortizable intangible assets $ 14,351 $ (8,476) $ 13,345 $ (7,806)
Goodwill $ 21,888 $ (9,900) $ 19,924 $ (9,973)
IPR&D 126 257
Technology-related 120 120
Indefinite-lived intangible assets $ 246 $ 377

(1)    In the fourth quarter of 2020, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $73 million related to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business and classified the remaining assets and liabilities as held for sale as of December 31, 2020. On March 1, 2021, we completed the divestiture of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business. The goodwill impairment charges of $73 million related to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business are no longer presented within accumulated write-offs above as of December 31, 2021.

Intangible asset impairment charges were $370 million in 2021, $460 million in 2020 and $105 million in 2019. The impairment charges recorded in 2021 were primarily associated with intangible assets established in connection with our acquisition of Millipede, Inc. and VENITI, Inc. The impairment charges recorded in 2020 were primarily associated with intangible assets established in connection with our acquisitions of Sadra Medical, Inc., Apama Medical Inc. and nVision Medical Corporation (nVision). Each of these impairment charges were recorded following management’s decision to cancel
the programs due to the length of time, and remaining cost to complete and commercialize the technology, the cost to remediate quality issues or, specific to nVision, our understanding of the clinical evidence necessary to commercialize the technology.

The following represents our goodwill balance by global reportable segment and our separately presented Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment:

(in millions) MedSurg Rhythm and Neuro Cardiovascular Specialty Pharmaceuticals Total
----------------------------------------------------- ------- ---------------- -------------- ------------------------- ----- ----- - --- - ------
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ 2,061 $ 2,192 $ 5,676 $ 247 $ 10,176
Foreign currency fluctuations and other changes (2) 3 22 — 22
Goodwill impairment charges — — — (73) (73)
Goodwill reclassified to Current assets held for sale — — — (175) (175)
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 2,059 $ 2,194 $ 5,697 $ — $ 9,951
Foreign currency fluctuations and other changes (5) (1) (21) — (27)
Goodwill acquired 544 1,309 210 — 2,064
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 2,598 $ 3,503 $ 5,887 $ — $ 11,988

In 2021, we did not record any Goodwill impairment charges. In 2020, we recorded Goodwill impairment charges of $73 million related to our Specialty Pharmaceuticals business and classified the remaining assets and liabilities as held for sale as of December 31, 2020. We did not record any Goodwill impairment charges in 2019. Refer to Note A – Significant Accounting Policies for further discussion of our goodwill and intangible asset impairment testing.

Estimated Amortization expense for each of the five succeeding fiscal years based upon our amortizable intangible asset portfolio as of December 31, 2021 is as follows (in millions):

Fiscal Year
----------- --- ---
 2022 $ 752
 2023 738
 2024 703
 2025 644
 2026 620

The gross carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and the related accumulated amortization for intangible assets subject to amortization and accumulated goodwill impairment charges are as follows:

 As of December 31, 2021 As of December 31, 2020
---------------------------------- ----------------------- ------------------------------------- --------------------- ---------------------------------- - ------ - -------
(in millions) Gross Carrying Amount AccumulatedAmortization/Write-offs(1) Gross Carrying Amount AccumulatedAmortization/Write-offs
Technology-related $ 11,957 $ (6,754) $ 11,059 $ (6,179)
Patents 494 (398) 511 (407)
Other intangible assets 1,900 (1,325) 1,775 (1,220)
Amortizable intangible assets $ 14,351 $ (8,476) $ 13,345 $ (7,806)
Goodwill $ 21,888 $ (9,900) $ 19,924 $ (9,973)
IPR&D 126 257
Technology-related 120 120
Indefinite-lived intangible assets $ 246 $ 377

(1)    In the fourth quarter of 2020, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $73 million Pharmaceuticals business. The goodwill impairment charges of $73 million related to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business are no longer presented within accumulated write-offs above as of December 31, 2021.
 11957000000
 6754000000
 11059000000
 6179000000
 494000000
 398000000
 511000000
 407000000
 1900000000
 1325000000
 1775000000
 1220000000
 14351000000
 8476000000
 13345000000
 7806000000
 21888000000
 9900000000
 19924000000
 9973000000
 126000000
 257000000
 120000000
 120000000
 246000000
 377000000
 73000000
 73000000
 370000000
 460000000
 105000000

The following represents our goodwill balance by global reportable segment and our separately presented Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment:

(in millions) MedSurg Rhythm and Neuro Cardiovascular Specialty Pharmaceuticals Total
----------------------------------------------------- ------- ---------------- -------------- ------------------------- ----- ----- - --- - ------
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ 2,061 $ 2,192 $ 5,676 $ 247 $ 10,176
Foreign currency fluctuations and other changes (2) 3 22 — 22
Goodwill impairment charges — — — (73) (73)
Goodwill reclassified to Current assets held for sale — — — (175) (175)
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 2,059 $ 2,194 $ 5,697 $ — $ 9,951
Foreign currency fluctuations and other changes (5) (1) (21) — (27)
Goodwill acquired 544 1,309 210 — 2,064
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 2,598 $ 3,503 $ 5,887 $ — $ 11,988

 2061000000
 2192000000
 5676000000
 247000000
 10176000000
 -2000000
 3000000
 22000000
 0
 22000000
 0
 0
 0
 73000000
 73000000
 0
 0
 0
 -175000000
 -175000000
 2059000000
 2194000000
 5697000000
 0
 9951000000
 -5000000
 -1000000
 -21000000
 0
 -27000000
 544000000
 1309000000
 210000000
 0
 2064000000
 2598000000
 3503000000
 5887000000
 0
 11988000000
 73000000

Estimated Amortization expense for each of the five succeeding fiscal years based upon our amortizable intangible asset portfolio as of December 31, 2021 is as follows (in millions):

Fiscal Year
----------- --- ---
 2022 $ 752
 2023 738
 2024 703
 2025 644
 2026 620

 752000000
 738000000
 703000000
 644000000
 620000000

NOTE E – HEDGING ACTIVITIES AND FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

We address market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates through risk management programs which include the use of derivative and nonderivative financial instruments. We operate these programs pursuant to documented corporate risk management policies and do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes. Our derivative instruments do not subject our earnings to material risk, as the gains or losses on these derivatives generally offset losses or gains recognized on the hedged item.
We manage concentration of counterparty credit risk by limiting acceptable counterparties to major financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings, limiting the amount of credit exposure to individual counterparties and by actively monitoring counterparty credit ratings and the amount of individual credit exposure. We also employ master netting arrangements that limit the risk of counterparty non-payment on a particular settlement date to the net gain that would have otherwise been received from the counterparty. Although not completely eliminated, we do not consider the risk of counterparty default to be significant as a result of these protections. Further, none of our derivative instruments are subject to collateral or other security arrangements, nor do they contain provisions that are dependent on our credit ratings from any credit rating agency.

Currency Hedging Instruments
Risk Management Strategy
Our risk from changes in currency exchange rates consists primarily of monetary assets and liabilities; forecasted intercompany and third-party transactions; net investments in certain subsidiaries; and, during 2019 prior to our acquisition of BTG, the purchase price of BTG, which was denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. We manage currency exchange rate risk at a consolidated level to reduce the cost of hedging by taking advantage of offsetting transactions. We employ derivative and nonderivative instruments, primarily forward currency contracts, to reduce the risk to our earnings and cash flows associated with changes in currency exchange rates.

The success of our currency risk management program depends, in part, on forecast transactions denominated primarily in euro, Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi and Australian dollar. We may experience unanticipated currency exchange gains or losses to the extent the actual activity is different than forecasted. In addition, changes in currency exchange rates related to any unhedged transactions may impact our earnings and cash flows.

Hedge Designations and Relationships

Certain of our currency derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges under FASB ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging (FASB ASC Topic 815), and are intended to protect the U.S. dollar value of forecasted transactions. The gain or loss on a derivative instrument designated as a cash flow hedge is recorded in the Net change in derivative financial instruments component of Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax (OCI) within our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) until the underlying third-party transaction occurs. When the underlying third-party transaction occurs, we recognize the gain or loss in earnings within Cost of products sold in our consolidated statements of operations. In the event the hedging relationship is no longer effective, or if the occurrence of the hedged forecast transaction becomes no longer probable, we reclassify the gains or losses within AOCI to earnings at that time.

We also designate certain forward currency contracts as net investment hedges to hedge a portion of our net investments in certain of our entities with functional currencies denominated in the Swiss franc, Japanese yen, British pound sterling, South Korean won and Taiwan dollar. For these derivative instruments, we elected to use the spot method to assess hedge effectiveness. We also elected to exclude the spot-forward difference, referred to as the excluded component, from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and are amortizing this amount separately, as calculated at the date of designation, on a straight-line basis over the term of the currency forward contracts. As such, we defer recognition of foreign currency gains and losses within the Foreign currency translation adjustment (CTA) component of OCI, and we reclassify amortization of the excluded component from AOCI to current period earnings within Interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations.

We designate certain euro-denominated debt as net investment hedges to hedge a portion of our net investments in certain of our entities with functional currencies denominated in the Euro. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, we designated as a net investment hedge a portion of our €900 million in aggregate principal amount of 0.625% senior notes issued in November 2019 and due in 2027. For these nonderivative instruments, we defer recognition of the foreign currency remeasurement gains and losses within the CTA component of OCI. We reclassify these gains and losses to current period earnings within Other, net in our consolidated statements of operations only when the hedged item affects earnings, which would occur upon disposal or substantial liquidation of the underlying foreign subsidiary.

We also use forward currency contracts that are not part of designated hedging relationships under FASB ASC Topic 815 as a part of our strategy to manage our exposure to currency exchange rate risk related to monetary assets and liabilities and related forecast transactions. These non-designated currency forward contracts have an original time to maturity consistent with the hedged currency transaction exposures, generally less than one year, and are marked-to-market with changes in fair value recorded to earnings within Other, net in our consolidated statements of operations.
Certain of our non-designated forward currency contracts were entered into for the purpose of managing our exposure to currency exchange rate risk related to the British pound sterling-denominated purchase price of BTG. In 2019, we settled all outstanding contracts, for $294 million, which is presented within Payments for settlements of hedge contracts in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Upon settlement in 2019, we received £3.312 billion of cash to fund our acquisition of BTG, which translated into $4.303 billion based on hedged currency exchange rates. We recognized a $323 million loss in 2019 in Other, net due to changes in fair value of the contracts.

Interest Rate Hedging Instruments
Risk Management Strategy

Our interest rate risk relates primarily to U.S. dollar and euro-denominated borrowings partially offset by U.S. dollar cash investments. We use interest rate derivative instruments to mitigate the risk to our earnings and cash flows associated with exposure to changes in interest rates. Under these agreements, we and the counterparty, at specified intervals, exchange the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. We designate these derivative instruments either as fair value or cash flow hedges in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815.

Hedge Designations and Relationships

We had no interest rate derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. Prior to 2020, we terminated interest rate derivative instruments that were designated as cash flow hedges and are continuing to recognize the amortization of the gains or losses originally recorded within AOCI to earnings as a component of Interest expense over the same period that the hedged item affects earnings, provided the hedge relationship remains effective. If we determine the hedge relationship is no longer effective, or if the occurrence of the hedged forecast transaction becomes no longer probable, we reclassify the amount of gains or losses from AOCI to earnings at that time.

In the event that we designate outstanding interest rate derivative instruments as cash flow hedges, we record the changes in the fair value of the derivatives within OCI until the underlying hedged transaction occurs. The balance of the deferred amounts on our terminated cash flow hedges within AOCI was a $24 million loss as of December 31, 2021 and a $29 million loss as of December 31, 2020.

We had no interest rate derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. Prior to 2018, we terminated interest rate derivative instruments that were designated as fair value hedges and are continuing to recognize the amortization of the gains or losses originally recorded within Long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheets into earnings as a component of Interest expense over the same period that the discount or premium associated with the hedged items affects earnings. In the event that we designate outstanding interest rate derivative instruments as fair value hedges, we record the changes in the fair values of interest rate derivatives designated as fair value hedges and of the underlying hedged debt instruments in Interest expense, which generally offset.

The following table presents the contractual amounts of our hedging instruments outstanding:
(in millions) FASB ASC Topic 815 Designation As of December 31,
------------------------------------ ------------------------------ ------------------ ----- ------ -----
 2021 2020
Forward currency contracts Cash flow hedge $ 3,996 $ 4,531
Forward currency contracts Net investment hedge 493 1,004
Foreign currency-denominated debt(1) Net investment hedge 997 868
Forward currency contracts Non-designated 3,892 4,946
Total Notional Outstanding $ 9,378 $ 11,349

(1)    Foreign currency-denominated debt is the portion of the €900 million debt principal designated as a net investment hedge.

The remaining time to maturity as of December 31, 2021 is within 60 months for all forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges and generally less than one year for all non-designated forward currency contracts. The forward currency contracts designated as net investment hedges generally mature within the next year. The euro-denominated debt principal designated as a net investment hedge has a contractual maturity of December 1, 2027.
The following presents the effect of our derivative and nonderivative instruments designated as cash flow and net investment hedges under FASB ASC Topic 815 in our accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Refer to Note Q – Changes in Other Comprehensive Income for the total amounts relating to derivative and nonderivative instruments presented within our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss).

Effect of Hedging Relationships on Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- --------------------- ---------------------- ---- ----- - ---- - -- - ----
Amount Recognized in OCI on Hedges Consolidated Statements of Operations(1) Amount Reclassified from AOCI into Earnings
(in millions) Pre-Tax Gain (Loss) Tax Benefit (Expense) Gain (Loss) Net of Tax Location of Amount Reclassified and Total Amount of Line Item Pre-Tax (Gain) Loss Tax (Benefit) Expense (Gain) Loss Net of Tax
Year Ended December 31, 2021
Forward currency contracts
Cash flow hedges $ 268 $ (60) $ 208 Cost of products sold $ 3,711 $ (54) $ 12 $ (42)
Net investment hedges(2) 56 (13) 43 Interest expense 341 (13) 3 (10)
Foreign currency-denominated debt
Net investment hedges(3) 82 (19) 64 Other, net (218) — — —
Interest rate derivative contracts
Cash flow hedges — — — Interest expense 341 5 (1) 4
Year Ended December 31, 2020
Forward currency contracts
Cash flow hedges $ (99) $ 22 $ (77) Cost of products sold $ 3,465 $ (83) $ 19 $ (64)
Net investment hedges(2) (37) 8 (29) Interest expense 361 (24) 5 (19)
Foreign currency-denominated debt
Net investment hedges(3) (89) 21 (68) Other, net (362) — — —
Interest rate derivative contracts
Cash flow hedges — — — Interest expense 361 5 (1) 4
Year Ended December 31, 2019
Forward currency contracts
Cash flow hedges $ 150 $ (34) $ 117 Cost of products sold $ 3,116 $ (73) $ 16 $ (56)
Net investment hedges(2) 68 (15) 53 Interest expense 473 (43) 10 (33)
Foreign currency-denominated debt
Net investment hedges(3) (14) 3 (11) Other, net (358) — — —
Interest rate derivative contracts
Cash flow hedges — — — Interest expense 473 3 (1) 2

(1)    In all periods presented in the table above, the pre-tax (gain) loss amounts reclassified from AOCI to earnings represent the effect of the hedging relationships on earnings.
(2)    For our outstanding forward currency contracts designated as net investment hedges, the net gain or loss reclassified from AOCI to earnings as a reduction of Interest expense represents the straight-line amortization of the excluded component as calculated at the date of designation. This initial value of the excluded component has been excluded from the assessment of effectiveness in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815. In the current and prior period, we did not recognize any gains or losses on the components included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness in earnings.
(3)    For our outstanding euro-denominated debt principal designated as a net investment hedge, the change in fair value attributable to changes in the spot rate is recorded in the CTA component of OCI. No amounts were reclassified from AOCI to current period earnings.
As of December 31, 2021, pre-tax net gains or losses for our derivative instruments designated, or previously designated, as cash flow and net investment hedges under FASB ASC Topic 815 that may be reclassified from AOCI to earnings within the next twelve months are presented below (in millions):

Designated Hedging Instrument FASB ASC Topic 815 Designation Location on Consolidated Statements of Operations Amount of Pre-Tax Gain (Loss) that may be Reclassified to Earnings
---------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------ ---
Forward currency contracts Cash flow hedge Cost of products sold $ 127
Forward currency contracts Net investment hedge Interest expense 3
Interest rate derivative contracts Cash flow hedge Interest expense (5)

Net gains and losses on currency hedge contracts not designated as hedging instruments offset by net gains and losses from currency transaction exposures are presented below:

(in millions) Location on Consolidated Statements of Operations Year Ended December 31,
------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- -- ----- -----
 2021 2020 2019
Net gain (loss) on currency hedge contracts Other, net $ (16) $ 73 $ (343)
Net gain (loss) on currency transaction exposures Other, net (12) (105) (15)
Net currency exchange gain (loss) $ (27) $ (32) $ (358)

Fair Value Measurements

FASB ASC Topic 815 requires all derivative and nonderivative instruments to be recognized at their fair values as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet. We determine the fair value of our derivative and nonderivative instruments using the framework prescribed by FASB ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, and considering the estimated amount we would receive or pay to transfer these instruments at the reporting date with respect to current currency exchange rates, interest rates, the creditworthiness of the counterparty for unrealized gain positions and our own creditworthiness for unrealized loss positions. In certain instances, we may utilize financial models to measure fair value of our derivative and nonderivative instruments. In doing so, we use inputs that include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, other observable inputs for the asset or liability and inputs derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation or other means. The following are the balances of our derivative and nonderivative assets and liabilities:

(in millions) Location on Consolidated Balance Sheets(1) As of December 31,
---------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------ ------------------ ----- ----- ---
 2021 2020
Derivative and Nonderivative Assets:
Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current assets $ 183 $ 53
Forward currency contracts Other long-term assets 169 109
 352 162
Non-Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current assets 42 79
Total Derivative and Nonderivative Assets $ 394 $ 242
Derivative and Nonderivative Liabilities:
Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current liabilities $ 32 $ 44
Forward currency contracts Other long-term liabilities 6 54
Foreign currency-denominated debt(2) Other long-term liabilities 1,011 1,094
 1,049 1,191
Non-Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current liabilities 22 71
Total Derivative and Nonderivative Liabilities $ 1,071 $ 1,262

(1)We classify derivative and nonderivative assets and liabilities as current when the settlement date of the contract is one year or less.
(2)Foreign currency-denominated debt is the portion of the €900 million debt principal designated as a net investment hedge. A portion of this notional is subject to de-designation and re-designation based on changes in the underlying hedged item.

Recurring Fair Value Measurements
On a recurring basis, we measure certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value based upon quoted market prices. Where quoted market prices or other observable inputs are not available, we apply valuation techniques to estimate fair value. FASB ASC Topic 820 establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements. The category of a financial asset or a financial liability within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the measurement of fair value. The three levels of the hierarchy are defined as follows:
•Level 1 – Inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2 – Inputs to the valuation methodology are other observable inputs, including quoted market prices for similar assets or liabilities and market-corroborated inputs.
•Level 3 – Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable inputs based on management’s best estimate of inputs market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date, including assumptions about risk.
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis consist of the following:

As of
------------------------------------ ----------------- ----------------- ------- ----- ------- ------- ------- ----- - ----- - ----- - --- - -----
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
(in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets
Money market funds and time deposits $ 1,632 $ — $ — $ 1,632 $ 1,584 $ — $ — $ 1,584
Publicly-held securities 10 — — 10 414 — — 414
Hedging instruments — 394 — 394 — 242 — 242
Licensing arrangements — — 246 246 — — 365 365
 $ 1,642 $ 394 $ 246 $ 2,282 $ 1,998 $ 242 $ 365 $ 2,605
Liabilities
Hedging instruments $ — $ 1,071 $ — $ 1,071 $ — $ 1,262 $ — $ 1,262
Contingent consideration liability — — 486 486 — — 196 196
Licensing arrangements — — 281 281 — — 407 407
 $ — $ 1,071 $ 767 $ 1,838 $ — $ 1,262 $ 603 $ 1,865

Our investments in money market funds and time deposits are classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices. These investments are classified as Cash and cash equivalents within our accompanying consolidated balance sheets, in accordance with U.S. GAAP and our accounting policies. In addition to $1.632 billion invested in money market funds and time deposits as of December 31, 2021 and $1.584 billion as of December 31, 2020, we held $293 million in interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing bank accounts as of December 31, 2021 and $150 million as of December 31, 2020.

Our recurring fair value measurements using Level 3 inputs include those related to our contingent consideration liability. Refer to Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments for a discussion of the changes in the fair value of our contingent consideration liability. In addition, our recurring fair value measurements using Level 3 inputs related to our licensing arrangements, including the contractual right to receive future royalty payments related to the Zytiga™ Drug. We recognized a financial asset and associated liability for our licensing arrangements at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets using the fair value option in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 825, Financial Instruments.

We own the contractual right to receive 50 percent of the future ZytigaTM Drug royalty payments from the licensee and remit such payments to the inventors associated with the intellectual property. Royalty payments we receive reduce the fair value of the financial asset and are presented within Proceeds from royalty rights, and payments we remit to inventors reduce the fair value of the financial liability and are presented within Payments for royalty rights within our consolidated statements of cash flows. We sold our right to receive and retain the other 50 percent of the future royalty payments in 2019 for an upfront cash payment, which we accounted for as a secured borrowing in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing. Although we sold these rights, we continue to recognize at fair value the future royalty payments as a financial asset and associated liability. Royalty payments associated with the rights we sold no longer impact our cash flows, and we present this activity as Non-cash impact of transferred royalty rights in the supplemental information to our consolidated statements of cash flows. We reduce the fair value of the financial asset and associated liability when such non-cash activity occurs.

We have recorded the fair value of the financial asset and associated liability using a discounted cash flow approach considering the probability-weighted expected future cash flows to be generated by the royalty stream. The fair value of the financial liability also considers the related contractual provisions that govern our payment obligations. Significant increases or decreases in projected cash flows of the royalty stream and the related contractual provisions that govern our payment obligations, discount rates or the time until payment is made would have resulted in a significantly lower or higher fair value measurement of the licensing arrangements' financial asset and liability as of December 31, 2021. However, increases or decreases in the financial asset would be offset by increases or decreases in the financial liability, other than for timing of receipt and remittance; as such our earnings are not subject to material gains and losses from the licensing arrangement.
The recurring Level 3 fair value measurements of our licensing arrangements recognized in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2021 include the following significant unobservable inputs:

Licensing Arrangements Fair Value as of December 31, 2021 Valuation Technique Unobservable Input Range Weighted Average(1)
------------------------- ---------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------ ----- ------------------- --- ---
Financial Asset $246 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 15% 15%
Projected Year of Payment 2022 - 2025 2023
Financial Liability $281 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 12% - 15% 13%
Projected Year of Payment 2022 - 2026 2024

(1)    Unobservable inputs relate to a single financial asset and liability. As such, unobservable inputs were not weighted by the relative fair value of the instruments. For projected year of payment, the amount represents the median of the inputs and is not a weighted average.

Changes in the fair value of our licensing arrangements' financial asset were as follows:
(in millions)
--------------------------------------- ----- ---
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ 518
Proceeds from royalty rights (175)
Fair value adjustment (expense) benefit 22
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 365
Proceeds from royalty rights (163)
Fair value adjustment (expense) benefit 44
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 246

Changes in the fair value of our licensing arrangements' financial liability were as follows:
(in millions)
--------------------------------------- ----- ---
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ 571
Payments for royalty rights (186)
Fair value adjustment expense (benefit) 22
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 407
Payments for royalty rights (166)
Fair value adjustment expense (benefit) 41
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 281

Non-Recurring Fair Value Measurements

We hold certain assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis in periods after initial recognition. The fair value of a measurement alternative investment is not estimated if there are no identified events or changes in circumstances that may have a significant adverse effect on the fair value of the investment. Refer to Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments for a discussion of our strategic investments and Note D – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for a discussion of the fair values of our intangible assets including goodwill.

The fair value of our outstanding debt obligations was $10.196 billion as of December 31, 2021, including $1.020 billion relating to our euro-denominated December 2027 Notes, and $10.774 billion as of December 31, 2020, including $1.118 billion relating to our euro-denominated December 2027 Notes. We determined fair value by using quoted market prices for our publicly registered senior notes, classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy, and face value for commercial paper, term loans and credit facility borrowings outstanding. Refer to Note F – Contractual Obligations and Commitments for a discussion of our debt obligations.
 900000000
 0.00625
 294000000
 3312000000
 4303000000
 -323000000
 24000000
 29000000
 The following table presents the contractual amounts of our hedging instruments outstanding:
(in millions) FASB ASC Topic 815 Designation As of December 31,
------------------------------------ ------------------------------ ------------------ ----- ------ -----
 2021 2020
Forward currency contracts Cash flow hedge $ 3,996 $ 4,531
Forward currency contracts Net investment hedge 493 1,004
Foreign currency-denominated debt(1) Net investment hedge 997 868
Forward currency contracts Non-designated 3,892 4,946
Total Notional Outstanding $ 9,378 $ 11,349

 3996000000
 4531000000
 493000000
 1004000000
 997000000
 868000000
 3892000000
 4946000000
 9378000000
 11349000000
 900000000
 60

The following presents the effect of our derivative and nonderivative instruments designated as cash flow and net investment hedges under FASB ASC Topic 815 in our accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Refer to Note Q – Changes in Other Comprehensive Income for the total amounts relating to derivative and nonderivative instruments presented within our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss).

Effect of Hedging Relationships on Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ---- ----- - ---- - -- - ----
Amount Recognized in OCI on Hedges Consolidated Statements of Operations(1) Amount Reclassified from AOCI into Earnings
(in millions) Pre-Tax Gain (Loss) Tax Benefit (Expense) Gain (Loss) Net of Tax Location of Amount Reclassified and Total Amount of Line Item Pre-Tax (Gain) Loss Tax (Benefit) Expense (Gain) Loss Net of Tax
Year Ended December 31, 2021
Forward currency contracts
Cash flow hedges $ 268 $ (60) $ 208 Cost of products sold $ 3,711 $ (54) $ 12 $ (42)
Net investment hedges(2) 56 (13) 43 Interest expense 341 (13) 3 (10)
Foreign currency-denominated debt
Net investment hedges(3) 82 (19) 64 Other, net (218) — — —
Interest rate derivative contracts
Cash flow hedges — — — Interest expense 341 5 (1) 4
Year Ended December 31, 2020
Forward currency contracts
Cash flow hedges $ (99) $ 22 $ (77) Cost of products sold $ 3,465 $ (83) $ 19 $ (64)
Net investment hedges(2) (37) 8 (29) Interest expense 361 (24) 5 (19)
Foreign currency-denominated debt
Net investment hedges(3) (89) 21 (68) Other, net (362) — — —
Interest rate derivative contracts
Cash flow hedges — — — Interest expense 361 5 (1) 4
Year Ended December 31, 2019
Forward currency contracts
Cash flow hedges $ 150 $ (34) $ 117 Cost of products sold $ 3,116 $ (73) $ 16 $ (56)
Net investment hedges(2) 68 (15) 53 Interest expense 473 (43) 10 (33)
Foreign currency-denominated debt
Net investment hedges(3) (14) 3 (11) Other, net (358) — — —
Interest rate derivative contracts
Cash flow hedges — — — Interest expense 473 3 (1) 2

(1)    In all periods presented in the table above, the pre-tax (gain) loss amounts reclassified from AOCI to earnings represent the effect of the hedging relationships on earnings.
(2)    For our outstanding forward currency contracts designated as net investment hedges, the net gain or loss reclassified in the assessment of hedge effectiveness in earnings.
(3)    For our outstanding euro-denominated debt principal designated as a net investment hedge, the change in fair value attributable to changes in the spot rate is recorded in the CTA component of OCI. No amounts were reclassified from AOCI to current period earnings.
 268000000
 -60000000
 208000000
 3711000000
 -54000000
 12000000
 -42000000
 56000000
 -13000000
 43000000
 341000000
 -13000000
 3000000
 10000000
 82000000
 -19000000
 64000000
 -218000000
 0
 0
 0
 0
 0
 0
 341000000
 -5000000
 -1000000
 4000000
 -99000000
 22000000
 -77000000
 3465000000
 -83000000
 19000000
 -64000000
 37000000
 -8000000
 29000000
 361000000
 24000000
 5000000
 -19000000
 -89000000
 21000000
 -68000000
 -362000000
 0
 0
 0
 0
 0
 0
 361000000
 -5000000
 -1000000
 4000000
 150000000
 -34000000
 117000000
 3116000000
 -73000000
 16000000
 -56000000
 -68000000
 15000000
 -53000000
 473000000
 43000000
 10000000
 -33000000
 -14000000
 3000000
 -11000000
 -358000000
 0
 0
 0
 0
 0
 0
 473000000
 -3000000
 -1000000
 2000000

As of December 31, to earnings within the next twelve months are presented below (in millions):

Designated Hedging Instrument FASB ASC Topic 815 Designation Location on Consolidated Statements of Operations Amount of Pre-Tax Gain (Loss) that may be Reclassified to Earnings
---------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------ ---
Forward currency contracts Cash flow hedge Cost of products sold $ 127
Forward currency contracts Net investment hedge Interest expense 3
Interest rate derivative contracts Cash flow hedge Interest expense (5)

 127000000
 3000000
 -5000000

Net gains and losses on currency hedge contracts not designated as hedging instruments offset by net gains and losses from currency transaction exposures are presented below:

(in millions) Location on Consolidated Statements of Operations Year Ended December 31,
------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- -- ----- -----
 2021 2020 2019
Net gain (loss) on currency hedge contracts Other, net $ (16) $ 73 $ (343)
Net gain (loss) on currency transaction exposures Other, net (12) (105) (15)
Net currency exchange gain (loss) $ (27) $ (32) $ (358)

 -16000000
 73000000
 -343000000
 -12000000
 -105000000
 -15000000
 -27000000
 -32000000
 -358000000
 FASB ASC Topic 815 requires all derivative and nonderivative instruments exchange rates, interest rates, the creditworthiness of the counterparty for unrealized gain positions and our own creditworthiness for unrealized loss positions. In certain instances, we may utilize market data by correlation or other means.
 The following are the balances of our derivative and nonderivative assets and liabilities:

(in millions) Location on Consolidated Balance Sheets(1) As of December 31,
---------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------ ------------------ ----- ----- ---
 2021 2020
Derivative and Nonderivative Assets:
Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current assets $ 183 $ 53
Forward currency contracts Other long-term assets 169 109
 352 162
Non-Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current assets 42 79
Total Derivative and Nonderivative Assets $ 394 $ 242
Derivative and Nonderivative Liabilities:
Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current liabilities $ 32 $ 44
Forward currency contracts Other long-term liabilities 6 54
Foreign currency-denominated debt(2) Other long-term liabilities 1,011 1,094
 1,049 1,191
Non-Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current liabilities 22 71
Total Derivative and Nonderivative Liabilities $ 1,071 $ 1,262

(1)We classify derivative and nonderivative assets and liabilities as current when the settlement date of the contract is one year or less.
(2)Foreign currency-denominated hedged item.
 183000000
 53000000
 169000000
 109000000
 352000000
 162000000
 42000000
 79000000
 394000000
 242000000
 32000000
 44000000
 6000000
 54000000
 1011000000
 1094000000
 1049000000
 1191000000
 22000000
 71000000
 1071000000
 1262000000
 900000000

Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis consist of the following:

As of
------------------------------------ ----------------- ----------------- ------- ----- ------- ------- ------- ----- - ----- - ----- - --- - -----
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
(in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets
Money market funds and time deposits $ 1,632 $ — $ — $ 1,632 $ 1,584 $ — $ — $ 1,584
Publicly-held securities 10 — — 10 414 — — 414
Hedging instruments — 394 — 394 — 242 — 242
Licensing arrangements — — 246 246 — — 365 365
 $ 1,642 $ 394 $ 246 $ 2,282 $ 1,998 $ 242 $ 365 $ 2,605
Liabilities
Hedging instruments $ — $ 1,071 $ — $ 1,071 $ — $ 1,262 $ — $ 1,262
Contingent consideration liability — — 486 486 — — 196 196
Licensing arrangements — — 281 281 — — 407 407
 $ — $ 1,071 $ 767 $ 1,838 $ — $ 1,262 $ 603 $ 1,865

The recurring Level 3 fair value measurements of our licensing arrangements recognized in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2021 include the following significant unobservable inputs:

Licensing Arrangements Fair Value as of December 31, 2021 Valuation Technique Unobservable Input Range Weighted Average(1)
------------------------- ---------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------ ----- ------------------- --- ---
Financial Asset $246 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 15% 15%
Projected Year of Payment 2022 - 2025 2023
Financial Liability $281 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 12% - 15% 13%
Projected Year of Payment 2022 - 2026 2024

(1)    Unobservable inputs relate to a single financial asset and liability. As such, unobservable inputs were not weighted by the relative fair value of the instruments. For projected year of payment, the amount represents the median of the inputs and is not a weighted average.

Changes in the fair value of our licensing arrangements' financial asset were as follows:
(in millions)
--------------------------------------- ----- ---
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ 518
Proceeds from royalty rights (175)
Fair value adjustment (expense) benefit 22
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 365
Proceeds from royalty rights (163)
Fair value adjustment (expense) benefit 44
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 246

Changes in the fair value of our licensing arrangements' financial liability were as follows:
(in millions)
--------------------------------------- ----- ---
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ 571
Payments for royalty rights (186)
Fair value adjustment expense (benefit) 22
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 407
Payments for royalty rights (166)
Fair value adjustment expense (benefit) 41
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 281

 1632000000
 0
 0
 1632000000
 1584000000
 0
 0
 1584000000
 10000000
 0
 0
 10000000
 414000000
 0
 0
 414000000
 0
 394000000
 0
 394000000
 0
 242000000
 0
 242000000
 0
 0
 246000000
 246000000
 0
 0
 365000000
 365000000
 1642000000
 394000000
 246000000
 2282000000
 1998000000
 242000000
 365000000
 2605000000
 0
 1071000000
 0
 1071000000
 0
 1262000000
 0
 1262000000
 0
 0
 486000000
 486000000
 0
 0
 196000000
 196000000
 0
 0
 281000000
 281000000
 0
 0
 407000000
 407000000
 0
 1071000000
 767000000
 1838000000
 0
 1262000000
 603000000
 1865000000
 1632000000
 1584000000
 293000000
 150000000
 246000000
 0.15
 0.15
 281000000
 0.12
 0.15
 0.13
 518000000
 175000000
 22000000
 365000000
 163000000
 44000000
 246000000
 571000000
 186000000
 22000000
 407000000
 166000000
 41000000
 281000000
 10196000000
 1020000000.00
 10774000000
 1118000000

NOTE F – CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS

Borrowings and Credit Arrangements

We had total debt outstanding of $9.065 billion as of December 31, 2021 and $9.143 billion as of December 31, 2020, with current maturities of $261 million as of December 31, 2021 and $13 million as of December 31, 2020. The debt maturity schedule for our long-term debt obligations is presented below:

Issuance Date Maturity Date As of December 31, Coupon Rate(1)
--------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------------ -------------- ----- ------ --- ------
(in millions, except interest rates) 2021 2020
May 2022 Notes(3) May 2015 May 2022 $ — $ 250 3.375%
October 2023 Notes August 2013 October 2023 244 244 4.125%
March 2024 Notes February 2019 March 2024 850 850 3.450%
May 2025 Notes May 2015 May 2025 523 523 3.850%
June 2025 Notes May 2020 June 2025 500 500 1.900%
March 2026 Notes February 2019 March 2026 850 850 3.750%
December 2027 Notes(4) November 2019 December 2027 1,021 1,105 0.625%
March 2028 Notes February 2018 March 2028 434 434 4.000%
March 2029 Notes February 2019 March 2029 850 850 4.000%
June 2030 Notes May 2020 June 2030 1,200 1,200 2.650%
November 2035 Notes(2) November 2005 November 2035 350 350 6.750%
March 2039 Notes February 2019 March 2039 750 750 4.550%
January 2040 Notes December 2009 January 2040 300 300 7.375%
March 2049 Notes February 2019 March 2049 1,000 1,000 4.700%
Unamortized Debt Issuance Discount and Deferred Financing Costs 2022 - 2049 (76) (88)
Unamortized Gain on Fair Value Hedges 2023 3 5
Finance Lease Obligation Various 6 7
Long-term debt $ 8,804 $ 9,130

Note: The table above does not include unamortized amounts related to interest rate contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
(1)    Coupon rates are semi-annual, except for the December 2027 Notes, which bear an annual coupon.
(2)    Corporate credit rating improvements may result in a decrease in the adjusted interest rate on our November 2035 Notes to the extent that our lowest credit rating is above BBB- or Baa3. The interest rates on our November 2035 Notes will be permanently reinstated to the issuance rate if the lowest credit ratings assigned to these senior notes is either A- or A3 or higher. Effective November 15, 2021, the interest rate payable decreased by 0.25 percent and began accruing at a rate of 6.75 percent following recent upgrades to our credit ratings.
(3) As of December 31, 2021 the outstanding balance is presented within Current Debt Obligations within our consolidated balance sheet.
(4)    The December 2027 notes are euro-denominated and presented in U.S. dollars based on the exchange rate in effect as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020.

Revolving Credit Facility

On May 10, 2021, we entered into a new $2.750 billion revolving credit facility (2021 Revolving Credit Facility) with a global syndicate of commercial banks and terminated our previous facility (2018 Revolving Credit Facility). The 2021 Revolving Credit Facility will mature on May 10, 2026, with one-year extension options, subject to certain conditions. This facility provides backing for our commercial paper program, and outstanding commercial paper directly reduces borrowing capacity under the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility. There were no amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2021 or December 31, 2020.
Term Loans

On April 21, 2020, in a proactive step to offset the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our short-term liquidity, we entered into a $1.250 billion term loan credit agreement scheduled to mature on April 20, 2021 (April 2021 Term Loan). We used proceeds from the April 2021 Term Loan to repay a portion of the amounts outstanding under the 2018 Revolving Credit Facility and the remaining amount under the December 2020 Term Loan described below. In May 2020, as described in further detail below, we used a portion of the proceeds from the May 2020 senior notes offering to prepay $500 million of amounts outstanding under the April 2021 Term Loan, and a portion of the combined net proceeds from our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (MCPS) and common stock offerings to repay in full the remaining $750 million outstanding under the April 2021 Term Loan and to pay related fees, expenses and premiums, after which it was terminated.

On February 27, 2020, we entered into a $1.000 billion term loan credit agreement scheduled to mature on February 25, 2021 (February 2021 Term Loan). We used the proceeds from the February 2021 Term Loan to repay the remaining amounts outstanding on the Three-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan, described below. On May 28, 2020, we entered into an amendment of the credit agreement to permit payment of regularly scheduled quarterly cash dividends and other limited cash payments on our issued MCPS and other capital stock issued by us, which is or becomes mandatorily convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock. The February 2021 Term Loan bears interest at an annual rate of LIBOR plus a margin of 0.85%. The credit agreement is subject to a financial covenant described below under Financial Covenant, and also contains customary events of default, which may result in the acceleration of any outstanding commitments. We used a portion of the proceeds from our May 2020 senior notes offering, described below, to prepay $750 million of amounts outstanding under the February 2021 Term Loan in the second quarter of 2020. In the third quarter of 2020, we prepaid the remaining $250 million and terminated the February 2021 Term Loan.

On December 5, 2019, we entered into a $700 million term loan credit agreement, which was scheduled to mature on December 3, 2020 (December 2020 Term Loan). As of December 31, 2019, we had $700 million outstanding under the December 2020 Term Loan, and we used the proceeds to repay a portion of the Two-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan, described below. In January 2020, we repaid $300 million of the outstanding balance of the December 2020 Term Loan with proceeds from our commercial paper program. In April 2020, we used the proceeds from the April 2021 Term Loan to repay the remaining amounts outstanding under the December 2020 Term Loan and terminated the December 2020 Term Loan.

On December 19, 2018, we entered into a $2.000 billion senior unsecured delayed-draw term loan facility consisting of a $1.000 billion two-year delayed draw term loan credit facility maturing in two years from the date of the closing of the acquisition of BTG (Two-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan) and a $1.000 billion three-year delayed draw term loan credit facility maturing in three years from the date of the closing of the acquisition of BTG (Three-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan). On August 19, 2019, for the purpose of funding the acquisition of BTG, we borrowed $1.000 billion under the Two-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan and $1.000 billion under the Three-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan. In 2019, we repaid all amounts outstanding on the Two-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan with proceeds from the sale of the Zytiga-related royalty interests, the December 2020 Term Loan and commercial paper and terminated the facility. As of December 31, 2019, we had $1.000 billion outstanding under the Three-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan. In the first quarter of 2020, we repaid all amounts outstanding on the Three-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan with proceeds from the February 2021 Term Loan and terminated the facility. As of December 31, 2021, we had no amounts outstanding under the Two and Three-Year Delayed Draw Term Loans and the facilities were terminated.

Financial Covenant

As of and through December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with the financial covenant required by our credit facilities described above.

 Covenant Requirementas of December 31, 2021 Actualas of December 31, 2021
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
Maximum permitted leverage ratio(1) 3.75 times 2.71 times

(1) Ratio of total debt to deemed consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the credit agreements, as amended.

The 2021 Revolving Credit Facility includes the following financial covenant requirement for all of our credit arrangements (i) maintain the maximum permitted leverage ratio of 4.50 times for the first quarter of 2021, with a step-down for each succeeding fiscal quarter end to 4.25 times, 4.00 times, and ultimately 3.75 times for the fourth quarter of 2021 and through the remaining term of the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility. The agreement provides for higher leverage ratios for the period following a qualified acquisition, at our election, for which consideration exceeds $1.000 billion. In the event of such an acquisition, for the four succeeding quarters immediately following, including the quarter in which the acquisition occurs, the maximum permitted
leverage ratio is 4.75 times. It steps down for the fifth, sixth and seventh succeeding quarters to 4.50 times, 4.25 times and 4.00 times, respectively. Thereafter, a maximum leverage ratio of 3.75 times is required through the remaining term of the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility.

The financial covenant requirement provides for an exclusion from the calculation of consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the agreement, through maturity, of any non-cash charges and up to $500 million in restructuring charges and restructuring-related expenses related to our current or future restructuring plans. As of December 31, 2021, we had $376 million of the restructuring charge exclusion remaining. In addition, any cash litigation payments (net of any cash litigation receipts), as defined by the agreements, are excluded from the calculation of consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the agreements, provided that the sum of any excluded net cash litigation payments do not exceed $1.455 billion in the aggregate. As of December 31, 2021, we had $1.122 billion of the litigation exclusion remaining.

Any inability to maintain compliance with this covenant could require us to seek to further renegotiate the terms of our credit arrangements or seek waivers from compliance with this covenant, both of which could result in additional borrowing costs. Further, there can be no assurance that our lenders would agree to such new terms or grant such waivers on terms acceptable to us. In this case, all 2021 Revolving Credit Facility commitments would terminate, and any amounts borrowed under the facility would become immediately due and payable. Furthermore, any termination of our 2021 Revolving Credit Facility may negatively impact the credit ratings assigned to our commercial paper program, which may impact our ability to refinance any then outstanding commercial paper as it becomes due and payable.

Commercial Paper

Our commercial paper program is backed by the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility, as discussed above, and outstanding commercial paper directly reduces borrowing capacity under the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility. We did not have any commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020.

Senior Notes

We had senior notes outstanding of $9.121 billion as of December 31, 2021 and $9.205 billion as of December 31, 2020.

On December 29, 2020, we redeemed $250 million of our $500 million 3.375% senior notes due 2022 (May 2022 Notes) at a redemption price calculated in accordance with the terms of the May 2022 Notes and its indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest through, but excluding, the date of redemption.

In May 2020, we completed an offering of $1.700 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior notes comprised of $500 million of 1.900% senior notes due June 2025 and $1.200 billion of 2.650% senior notes due June 2030. We used the net proceeds from the offering to refinance $450 million of amounts outstanding under the 2018 Revolving Credit Facility, prepay $750 million of amounts outstanding under the $1.000 billion February 2021 Term Loan, prepay $500 million of amounts outstanding under the $1.250 billion April 2021 Term Loan and pay related fees, expenses and premiums.

In November 2019, we completed an offering of €900 million (approximately $1.000 billion) in aggregate principal amount of 0.625% senior notes due in 2027 (December 2027 Notes). The euro-denominated debt principal is a nonderivative instrument designated as a net investment hedge of our net investments in certain of our euro functional entities. Refer to Note E – Hedging Activities and Fair Value Measurements for additional information. We used a portion of the net proceeds from our November 2019 senior notes offering to repay certain outstanding principal amounts of our senior notes including $206 million of our $450 million 4.125% senior notes due 2023, $566 million of our $1.000 billion 4.000% senior notes due 2028 and $227 million of our $750 million 3.850% senior notes due 2025 and pay accrued and unpaid interest, premiums, fees and expenses in connection with the transaction. In 2019, we incurred associated debt extinguishment charges of $86 million presented in Interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations.

In February 2019, we completed an offering of $4.300 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior notes comprised of $850 million of 3.450% senior notes due March 2024, $850 million of 3.750% senior notes due March 2026, $850 million of 4.000% senior notes due March 2029, $750 million of 4.550% senior notes due March 2039 and $1.000 billion of 4.700% senior notes due March 2049. We used a portion of the net proceeds from the offering to repay the $850 million plus accrued interest and premium of our 6.000% senior notes due in January 2020, the $600 million plus accrued interest and premium of our 2.850% senior notes due in May 2020 and the $1.000 billion plus accrued interest of our August 2019 Term Loan. In 2019, the remaining proceeds were used to finance a portion of our acquisition of BTG.
Our senior notes were issued in public offerings, are redeemable prior to maturity and are not subject to sinking fund requirements. Our senior notes are unsecured, unsubordinated obligations and rank on parity with each other. These notes are effectively junior to liabilities of our subsidiaries (see Other Arrangements below).

Certain of our senior notes contain a change-in-control provision, which provides that each holder of the senior notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of the notes at a price equal to 101 percent of the aggregate repurchased principal, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if a rating event, as defined in the indenture, occurs as a result of a change-in-control, as defined in the indenture. Any other credit rating changes may impact our borrowing cost, but do not require us to repay any borrowings.

Other Arrangements

We have accounts receivable factoring programs in certain European countries and with commercial banks in China and Japan which include promissory notes discounting programs. We account for our factoring programs as sales under FASB ASC Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing. We have no retained interest in the transferred receivables, other than collection and administration, and once sold, the accounts receivable are no longer available to satisfy creditors in the event of bankruptcy. Amounts de-recognized for accounts and notes receivable, which are excluded from Trade accounts receivable, net in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets, are aggregated by contract denominated currency below (in millions):
As of December 31, 2021 As of December 31, 2020
----------------------- ----------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------- ------------------------------ --- --- --- -
Factoring Arrangements AmountDe-recognized Weighted Average Interest Rate AmountDe-recognized Weighted Average Interest Rate
Euro denominated $ 141 2.1 % $ 148 1.9 %
Yen denominated 223 0.6 % 240 0.6 %
Renminbi denominated — 3.2 % — 3.5 %
.

Other Contractual Obligations and Commitments

We had outstanding letters of credit of $134 million as of December 31, 2021 and $124 million as of December 31, 2020, which consisted primarily of bank guarantees and collateral for workers' compensation insurance arrangements. As of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, none of the beneficiaries had drawn upon the letters of credit or guarantees, accordingly, we have not recognized a related liability for our outstanding letters of credit in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020.

Future minimum purchase obligations, relating primarily to non-cancellable inventory commitments and capital expenditures entered in the normal course of business, were as of December 31, 2021 (in millions):

Fiscal Year Unrecorded Purchase Obligations
----------- ------------------------------- ---
 2022 $ 631
 2023 82
 2024 58
 2025 31
 2026 11
Thereafter —
 $ 812

 9065000000.000
 9143000000
 261000000
 13000000

Issuance Date Maturity Date As of December 31, Coupon Rate(1)
--------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------------ -------------- ----- ------ --- ------
(in millions, except interest rates) 2021 2020
May 2022 Notes(3) May 2015 May 2022 $ — $ 250 3.375%
October 2023 Notes August 2013 October 2023 244 244 4.125%
March 2024 Notes February 2019 March 2024 850 850 3.450%
May 2025 Notes May 2015 May 2025 523 523 3.850%
June 2025 Notes May 2020 June 2025 500 500 1.900%
March 2026 Notes February 2019 March 2026 850 850 3.750%
December 2027 Notes(4) November 2019 December 2027 1,021 1,105 0.625%
March 2028 Notes February 2018 March 2028 434 434 4.000%
March 2029 Notes February 2019 March 2029 850 850 4.000%
June 2030 Notes May 2020 June 2030 1,200 1,200 2.650%
November 2035 Notes(2) November 2005 November 2035 350 350 6.750%
March 2039 Notes February 2019 March 2039 750 750 4.550%
January 2040 Notes December 2009 January 2040 300 300 7.375%
March 2049 Notes February 2019 March 2049 1,000 1,000 4.700%
Unamortized Debt Issuance Discount and Deferred Financing Costs 2022 - 2049 (76) (88)
Unamortized Gain on Fair Value Hedges 2023 3 5
Finance Lease Obligation Various 6 7
Long-term debt $ 8,804 $ 9,130

Note: The table above does not include unamortized amounts related to interest rate contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
(1)    Coupon rates are semi-annual, except for the December 2027 Notes, which bear an annual coupon.
(2)    Corporate credit rating improvements may result in a decrease in the adjusted interest rate on our November 2035 Notes to the extent that our lowest credit rating is above BBB- or Baa3. The interest rates on our November 2035 Notes will be permanently reinstated to the issuance rate if the lowest credit ratings assigned to these senior notes is either A- or A3 or higher. Effective November 15, 2021, the interest rate payable decreased by 0.25 percent and began accruing at a rate of 6.75 percent following recent upgrades to our credit ratings.
(3) As of December 31, 2021 the outstanding balance is presented within Current Debt Obligations within our consolidated balance sheet.
(4)    The December 2027 notes are euro-denominated and presented in U.S. dollars based on the exchange rate in effect as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020.
 0
 250000000
 0.03375
 244000000
 244000000
 0.04125
 850000000
 850000000
 0.03450
 523000000
 523000000
 0.03850
 500000000
 500000000
 0.01900
 850000000
 850000000
 0.03750
 1021000000
 1105000000
 0.00625
 434000000
 434000000
 0.04000
 850000000
 850000000
 0.04000
 1200000000
 1200000000
 0.02650
 350000000
 350000000
 0.06750
 750000000
 750000000
 0.04550
 300000000
 300000000
 0.07375
 1000000000
 1000000000
 0.04700
 76000000
 88000000
 3000000
 5000000
 6000000
 7000000
 8804000000
 9130000000
 2750000000
 1250000000
 500000000
 750000000
 1000000000
 0.0085
 750000000
 250000000
 700000000
 700000000
 300000000
 2000000000
 1000000000
 1000000000
 1000000000
 1000000000
 1000000000

As of and through December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with the financial covenant required by our credit facilities described above.

 Covenant Requirementas of December 31, 2021 Actualas of December 31, 2021
----------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
Maximum permitted leverage ratio(1) 3.75 times 2.71 times

(1) Ratio of total debt to deemed consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the credit agreements, as amended.
 3.75
 2.71
 4.50
 4.25
 4.00
 3.75
 1000000000
 4.75
 4.50
 4.25
 4.00
 3.75
 500000000
 376000000
 1455000000
 1122000000

Commercial Paper

Our commercial paper program is backed by the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility, as discussed above, and outstanding commercial paper directly reduces borrowing capacity under the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility. We did not have any commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020.
 9121000000
 9205000000
 250000000
 500000000
 0.03375
 1700000000
 500000000
 0.01900
 1200000000
 0.02650
 450000000
 750000000
 1000000000
 500000000
 1250000000
 900000000
 1000000000
 0.00625
 206000000
 450000000
 0.04125
 566000000
 1000000000
 0.04000
 227000000
 750000000
 0.03850
 86000000
 4300000000
 850000000
 0.03450
 850000000
 0.03750
 850000000
 0.04000
 750000000
 0.04550
 1000000000
 0.04700
 850000000
 0.06000
 600000000
 0.02850
 1000000000
 1.01
 Amounts de-recognized for accounts and notes receivable, which are excluded from Trade accounts receivable, net in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets, are aggregated by contract denominated currency below (in millions):
As of December 31, 2021 As of December 31, 2020
----------------------- ----------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------- ------------------------------ --- --- --- -
Factoring Arrangements AmountDe-recognized Weighted Average Interest Rate AmountDe-recognized Weighted Average Interest Rate
Euro denominated $ 141 2.1 % $ 148 1.9 %
Yen denominated 223 0.6 % 240 0.6 %
Renminbi denominated — 3.2 % — 3.5 %
.
 141000000
 0.021
 148000000
 0.019
 223000000
 0.006
 240000000
 0.006
 0
 0.032
 0
 0.035
 134000000
 124000000

Fiscal Year Unrecorded Purchase Obligations
----------- ------------------------------- ---
 2022 $ 631
 2023 82
 2024 58
 2025 31
 2026 11
Thereafter —
 $ 812

 631000000
 82000000
 58000000
 31000000
 11000000
 0
 812000000

NOTE G – LEASES

We have operating and finance leases for real estate including corporate offices, land, warehouse space, and vehicles and certain equipment. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are generally not recorded on the balance sheet, unless the arrangement includes an option to purchase the underlying asset, or an option to renew the arrangement, that we are reasonably certain to exercise (short-term leases). We recognize lease expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term for short-term leases that we do not record on our balance sheet. If there is a change in our assessment of the lease term and, as a result, the remaining lease term extends more than 12 months from the end of the previously determined lease term, or we subsequently become reasonably certain that we will exercise an option to purchase the underlying asset, the lease no longer meets the definition of a short-term lease and is accounted for as either an operating or finance lease and recognized on the balance sheet. In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases, we account for the lease components and the non-lease components as a single lease component, with the exception of our warehouse leases. Our leases have remaining lease terms of less than 1 year to approximately 55 years, some of which may include options to extend the leases for up to 15 years. If we are reasonably certain we will exercise an option to extend the lease, the time period covered by the extension option is included in the lease term.

We determine whether an arrangement is or contains a lease based on the unique facts and circumstances present at the inception of the arrangement. Operating lease liabilities and their corresponding right-of-use assets are recorded based on the present value of lease payments over the expected lease term. The interest rate implicit in lease contracts is typically not readily determinable. As such, we utilize the appropriate incremental borrowing rate, which is the rate incurred to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term at an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment. Certain adjustments to the right-of-use asset may be required for items such as initial direct costs paid or incentives received.

Our operating lease right-of-use assets are presented within Other long-term assets and corresponding liabilities are presented within Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. Refer to Note F – Contractual Obligations and Commitments for information regarding our finance leases. The following table presents supplemental balance sheet information related to our operating leases:

As of December 31,
------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---
(in millions) 2021 2020
Assets
Operating lease right-of-use assets in Other long-term assets $ 435 $ 458
Liabilities
Operating lease liabilities in Other current liabilities 71 70
Operating lease liabilities in Other long-term liabilities 389 401

The following table presents the weighted average remaining lease term and discount rate information related to our operating leases:
As of December 31,
------------------------------------- -------- --------
 2021 2020
Weighted average remaining lease term 10 years 11 years
Weighted average discount rate 2.6% 2.4%

Our operating lease cost under FASB ASC Topic 842 was $90 million in 2021, $92 million in 2020 and $80 million in 2019.

The following table presents supplemental cash flow information related to our operating leases:

Year Ended December 31,
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ---- - --
(in millions) 2021 2020
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities
Operating cash flows from operating leases $ 87 $ 91

Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease obligations were $68 million as of December 31, 2021 and $202 million as of December 31, 2020.The following table presents the maturities of our operating lease liabilities as of December 31, 2021 (in millions):
Fiscal year Operating Leases
--------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---
 2022 $ 86
 2023 69
 2024 56
 2025 49
 2026 40
Thereafter 228
Total future minimum operating lease payments 528
Less: imputed interest (68)
Present value of operating lease liabilities $ 460

 P1Y
 P55Y
 P15Y
 The following table presents supplemental balance sheet information related to our operating leases:
As of December 31,
------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ---- - ---
(in millions) 2021 2020
Assets
Operating lease right-of-use assets in Other long-term assets $ 435 $ 458
Liabilities
Operating lease liabilities in Other current liabilities 71 70
Operating lease liabilities in Other long-term liabilities 389 401

 435000000
 458000000
 71000000
 70000000
 389000000
 401000000
 The following table presents the weighted average remaining lease term and discount rate information related to our operating leases:
As of December 31,
------------------------------------- -------- --------
 2021 2020
Weighted average remaining lease term 10 years 11 years
Weighted average discount rate 2.6% 2.4%

 P10Y
 P11Y
 0.026
 0.024
 90000000
 92000000

The following table presents supplemental cash flow information related to our operating leases:

Year Ended December 31,
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- ---- - --
(in millions) 2021 2020
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities
Operating cash flows from operating leases $ 87 $ 91

 87000000
 91000000
 68000000
 202000000
 The following table presents the maturities of our operating lease liabilities as of December 31, 2021 (in millions):
Fiscal year Operating Leases
--------------------------------------------- ---------------- ---
 2022 $ 86
 2023 69
 2024 56
 2025 49
 2026 40
Thereafter 228
Total future minimum operating lease payments 528
Less: imputed interest (68)
Present value of operating lease liabilities $ 460

 86000000
 69000000
 56000000
 49000000
 40000000
 228000000
 528000000
 68000000
 460000000

NOTE H – RESTRUCTURING-RELATED ACTIVITIES

2019 Restructuring Plan

On November 15, 2018, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to a global restructuring program (the 2019 Restructuring Plan). The 2019 Restructuring Plan is intended to support our effort to improve operating performance and meet anticipated market demands by ensuring that we are appropriately structured and resourced to deliver sustainable value to patients and customers. Key activities under the 2019 Restructuring Plan include supply chain network optimization intended to maximize our global manufacturing and distribution network capacity and building functional capabilities that support business growth. These activities were initiated in 2019, with the majority of activity expected to be complete by the end of 2022, following a one-year extension approved by our Board of Directors on February 22, 2021.

On February 22, 2021, our Board of Directors approved an extension and expansion of the 2019 Restructuring Plan to include additional cost optimization activities, including the centralization of certain functional capabilities within the international regions in which we operate, and a one-year extension of the program to complete these activities along with certain other initiatives that were delayed in 2020 due to restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, on February 22, 2022, we increased and our Board of Directors approved cost estimates to complete additional activities identified under the program. We continue to expect the majority of activity associated with our 2019 Restructuring Plan, including the recent expansion, to be substantially complete by the end of 2022.

The following table provides a summary of our estimates of total pre-tax charges associated with the 2019 Restructuring Plan, by major type of cost, of which approximately $375 million to $475 million are expected to result in cash outlays:

Type of Cost (in millions) Total Estimated Amount Expected to be Incurred
------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------- - ----
Restructuring charges:
Termination benefits $75 - $100
Other(1) 25 - 50
Restructuring-related expenses:
Other(2) 325 - 375
 $425 - $525

(1)    Consists primarily of consulting fees and costs associated with contractual cancellations.
(2)    Comprised of other costs directly related to the restructuring program, including program management, accelerated depreciation, fixed asset write-offs, and costs to transfer product lines among facilities.

2016 Restructuring Plan

On June 6, 2016, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to a restructuring initiative (the 2016 Restructuring Plan). The 2016 Restructuring Plan was intended to develop global commercialization, technology and manufacturing capabilities in key growth markets, build on our Plant Network Optimization (PNO) strategy which is intended to simplify our manufacturing plant structure by transferring certain production lines among facilities and expand operational efficiencies in support of our operating income margin goals. Key activities under the 2016 Restructuring Plan included strengthening global infrastructure through evolving global real estate assets and workplaces, developing global commercial and technical competencies,
enhancing manufacturing and distribution expertise in certain regions and continuing implementation of our PNO strategy. These activities were initiated in the second quarter of 2016 and substantially completed in 2019.

The following table provides a summary of total pre-tax charges associated with the 2016 Restructuring Plan by major type of cost, of which approximately $255 million resulted in cash outlays:

Type of cost (in millions) Total Amount Incurred
------------------------------- --------------------- ---
Restructuring charges:
Termination benefits $ 86
Other(1) 21
Restructuring-related expenses:
Other(2) 164
 $ 271

(1)    Consists primarily of consulting fees and costs associated with contract cancellations.
(2)    Comprised of other costs directly related to the 2016 Restructuring Plan, including program management, accelerated depreciation, fixed asset write-offs and costs to transfer product lines among facilities.
The following presents the restructuring and restructuring-related net charges (credits) by major type and line item within our accompanying consolidated statements of operations (in millions):

Year Ended December 31, 2021 TerminationBenefits TransferCosts Other Total
-------------------------------------------- ------------------- ------------- ----- ----- - -- - ---
Restructuring charges $ 20 $ — $ 20 $ 40
Restructuring-related expenses:
Cost of prod

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS-REFERENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

['s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.

Cash, Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash and Restricted Cash Equivalents

Cash and Cash Equivalents

We record Cash and cash equivalents in our consolidated balance sheets at cost, which approximates fair value. Our policy is to invest excess cash in short-term marketable securities earning a market rate of interest without assuming undue risk of loss of principal amounts invested and we limit our direct exposure to securities in any one industry or issuer. We consider to be cash equivalents all short-term marketable securities with remaining days to maturity of 90 days or less from the purchase date that can be readily converted to cash.

Restricted Cash

Amounts included in restricted cash represent cash on hand required to be set aside by a contractual agreement related to receivable factoring arrangements and deferred compensation plans and are included in the Other current assets caption within our consolidated balance sheets. Generally, the restrictions related to the factoring arrangements lapse at the time we remit the
customer payments collected by us for servicing previously sold customer receivables to the purchaser. Restrictions for deferred compensation lapse when amounts are paid to the employee.

Restricted Cash EquivalentsRestricted cash equivalents primarily represent amounts paid into various qualified settlement funds related to our ongoing transvaginal surgical mesh litigation and current amounts related to our non-qualified pension plan and are included in the Other current assets caption within our consolidated balance sheets. The restrictions related to the various qualified settlement funds will lapse as we approve amounts payable to claimants, at which time we no longer have rights to a return of the amounts paid into the various qualified settlement funds. Restricted cash equivalents included in the Other long-term assets caption within our consolidated balance sheets are related to deferred compensation plans.

Concentrations of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and accounts and notes receivable. Our investment policy limits exposure to concentrations of credit risk and changes in market conditions. Counterparties to financial instruments expose us to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance. We transact our financial instruments with a diversified group of major financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings and actively monitor their credit ratings and our outstanding positions to limit our credit exposure. In the normal course, our payment terms with customers, including hospitals, healthcare agencies, clinics, doctors']:
NOTE 10. INCOME TAXES Income before income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: -------------------------- ----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ----- - ----- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Domestic $ 1,736 $ 1,090 $ 438 Foreign 3,969 3,086 2,767 Income before income taxes $ 5,705 $ 4,176 $ 3,205 The provision for (benefit from) income taxes for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: ----------------------------------------- ----- --- ---- ------- ---- ------- ---- - --- (in millions) 2021 2020 2019 Current: United States federal $ 391 $ 119 $ 7 Foreign 197 222 211 State and local 103 79 31 Total current 691 420 249 Deferred: United States federal (148) (123) 23 Foreign 359 (1,313) (12) State and local (19) (68) (6) Total deferred 192 (1,504) 5 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 883 $ (1,084) $ 254 Intra-Entity Transfers of Certain Intellectual Property Rights ("IP rights") During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights is recognized over the period of economic benefit. 80 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reconciliation of Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Total income tax expense differed from the expected tax expense, computed by multiplying the U.S. federal statutory rate of...

['s discontinuation of the associated R&D program.
The recurring Level 3 fair value measurements of our contingent consideration liability that we expect to be required to settle include the following significant unobservable inputs:

Contingent Consideration Liability Fair Value as of December 31, 2021 Valuation Technique Unobservable Input Range Weighted Average(1)
------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------ ----- ------------------- -- --- --
R&D, Regulatory and Commercialization-based Milestones $143 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 1% 2% 1%
Probability of Payment 80% 95% 92%
Projected Year of Payment 2022 2024 2023
Revenue-based Payments $343 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 4 % - 14% 6%
Probability of Payment 100 % - 100% 100%
Projected Year of Payment 2021 - 2024 2022

(1)    Unobservable inputs were weighted by the relative fair value of the contingent consideration liability. For projected year of payment, the amount represents the median of the inputs and is not a weighted average.

Projected contingent payment amounts related to our R&D, regulatory and commercialization-based and revenue-based milestones are discounted back to the current period, primarily using a discounted cash flow model. Significant increases or decreases in projected revenues, probabilities of payment, discount rates or the time until payment is made would have resulted in a significantly lower or higher fair value measurement as of December 31, 2021.

Strategic Investments

The aggregate carrying amount of our strategic investments was comprised of the following:

As of December 31,
-------------------------------------- ---- ---- --- ---
(in millions) 2021 2020
Equity method investments $ 259 $ 319
Measurement alternative investments(1) 142 183
Publicly-held securities(2) 10 414
Notes receivable — 2
 $ 412 $ 918

(1)    Measurement alternative investments are privately-held equity securities without readily determinable fair values that are measured at cost less impairment, if any, adjusted to fair value for any observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer, recognized in Other, net within our accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
(2)    Publicly-held equity securities are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in Other, net within our consolidated statements of operations.

These investments are classified as Other long-term assets within our consolidated balance sheets, in accordance with U.S. GAAP and our accounting policies.We recorded a $178 million loss in 2021 and a $363 million gain in 2020 on our investment in Pulmonx Corporation presented in Other, net associated with the remeasurement of our investment during the period to fair value based on observable market prices, as well as the disposition of our remaining ownership during 2021. As of December 31, 2021, the cost of our aggregated equity method investments exceeded our share of the underlying equity in net assets by $289 million, which represents amortizable intangible assets, IPR&D, goodwill and deferred tax liabilities.
 1750000000
 925000000
 300000000
 0.22
 196000000
 706000000
 230000000
 450000000
 125000000
 P3Y
 0.27
 222000000
 268000000
 92000000
 1032000000.000
 320000000
 80000000
 0.16
 57000000
 251000000
 67000000
 The final determination of the fair value of certain assets and liabilities will be completed within the measurement period in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 805, Business Combinations.
(in millions) Preventice Lumenis All Other Total
--------------------------------------------- ---------- ------- --------- ----- ----- --- ----- -----
Payment for acquisition, net of cash acquired $ 706 $ 1,032 $ 519 $ 2,258
Fair value of contingent consideration 221 — 218 440
Fair value of prior interest 269 — 287 556
 $ 1,197 $ 1,032 $ 1,025 $ 3,254

 706000000
 1032000000
 519000000
 2258000000
 221000000
 0
 218000000
 440000000
 269000000
 0
 287000000
 556000000
 1197000000
 1032000000
 1025000000
 3254000000

The preliminary purchase price allocation for these acquisitions was comprised of the following components:

(in millions) Preventice Lumenis All Other Total
---------------------------------- ---------- ------- --------- ----- ----- --- ----- -----
Goodwill $ 926 $ 544 $ 594 $ 2,064
Amortizable intangible assets 237 423 465 1,125
Indefinite-lived intangible assets — 69 43 112
Other assets acquired 65 115 9 190
Liabilities assumed (32) (101) (11) (144)
Net deferred tax liabilities — (18) (75) (93)
 $ 1,197 $ 1,032 $ 1,025 $ 3,254

 926000000
 544000000
 594000000
 2064000000
 237000000
 423000000
 465000000
 1125000000
 0
 69000000
 43000000
 112000000
 65000000
 115000000
 9000000
 190000000
 32000000
 101000000
 11000000
 144000000
 0
 18000000
 75000000
 93000000
 1197000000
 1032000000
 1025000000
 3254000000

We allocated a portion of the preliminary purchase price to the specific intangible asset categories as follows:

Amount Assigned(in millions) Weighted Average Amortization Period(in years) Risk-Adjusted Discount Rates used in Purchase Price Allocation
------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------- --- --- - ---
Preventice:
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 215 9 10%
Other intangible assets 22 8 10%
 $ 237
Lumenis:
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 388 12 11%
Other intangible assets 35 11 11%
Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
In-process research and development (IPR&D) 69 N/A 12%
 $ 492
All Other:
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 465 12 16% - 17%
Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
In-process research and development (IPR&D) 43 N/A 17%
 $ 508

 215000000
 P9Y
 0.10
 22000000
 P8Y
 0.10
 237000000
 388000000
 P12Y
 0.11
 35000000
 P11Y
 0.11
 69000000
 0.12
 492000000
 465000000
 P12Y
 0.16
 0.17
 43000000
 0.17
 508000000
 800000000
 5
 280
 800000000
 256000000
 3312000000
 4023000000.000
 8.40
 10.20
 404000000
 The final purchase price was comprised of the following components:
(in millions)
--------------------------------------------- - -----
Payment for acquisition, net of cash acquired $ 3,619

 3619000000
 The final purchase price allocation was comprised of the following components:
(in millions)
---------------------------------------------- ----- -----
Goodwill $ 1,635
Trade accounts receivable, net 108
Inventories 232
Other current assets 252
Other intangible assets, net 1,785
Other long-term assets 538
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities (308)
Other long-term liabilities (274)
Deferred tax liability (349)
 $ 3,619

 1635000000
 108000000
 232000000
 252000000
 1785000000
 538000000
 308000000
 274000000
 349000000
 3619000000
 We allocated a portion of the purchase price to the specific intangible asset categories as follows:
Amount Assigned(in millions) Amortization Period(in years) Risk-Adjusted Discount Rates used in Purchase Price Allocation
------------------------------ ----------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------- -- -- --- -- - - ---
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 1,709 10 - 18 11 % - 12%
Other intangible assets 75 2 - 11 11%
 $ 1,785

 1709000000
 P10Y
 P18Y
 0.11
 0.12
 75000000
 P2Y
 P11Y
 0.11
 1785000000
 1635000000
 1399000000
 236000000
 73000000
 465000000
 0
 100000000
 20000000
 90000000
 0.20
 325000000
 125000000
 242000000
 104000000
 The final purchase prices were comprised of the following components:
(in millions)
----------------------------------------------- --- ---
Payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired $ 763
Fair value of contingent consideration 127
Fair value of prior interests 102
 $ 992

 763000000
 127000000
 102000000
 992000000

The final combined purchase price allocation was comprised of the following components:

(in millions)
---------------------------------- ---- ---
Goodwill $ 577
Amortizable intangible assets 220
Indefinite-lived intangible assets 240
Other assets acquired 24
Liabilities assumed (12)
Net deferred tax liabilities (58)
 $ 992

 577000000
 220000000
 240000000
 24000000
 12000000
 58000000
 992000000
 We allocated a portion of the combined purchase price to the specific intangible asset categories as follows:
Amount Assigned(in millions) Amortization Period(in years) Risk-Adjusted Discount Rates used in Purchase Price Allocation
----------------------------------- ----------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------- --- ---
Amortizable intangible assets:
Technology-related $ 210 12 15%
Other intangible assets 10 12 15%
Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
In-process research and development 240 N/A 19%
 $ 461

 210000000
 P12Y
 0.15
 10000000
 P12Y
 0.15
 240000000
 0.19
 461000000
 Changes in the fair value of our contingent consideration liability were as follows:
(in millions)
---------------------------------------------------- ----- ---
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ 354
Contingent consideration net expense (benefit) (100)
Contingent consideration payments (58)
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 196
Amount recorded related to current year acquisitions 440
Contingent consideration net expense (benefit) (136)
Contingent consideration payments (15)
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 486

 354000000
 -100000000
 58000000
 196000000
 440000000
 -136000000
 15000000
 486000000
 986000000
 -136000000
 -100000000

The recurring Level 3 fair value measurements of our contingent consideration liability that we expect to be required to settle include the following significant unobservable inputs:

Contingent Consideration Liability Fair Value as of December 31, 2021 Valuation Technique Unobservable Input Range Weighted Average(1)
------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------ ----- ------------------- -- --- --
R&D, Regulatory and Commercialization-based Milestones $143 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 1% 2% 1%
Probability of Payment 80% 95% 92%
Projected Year of Payment 2022 2024 2023
Revenue-based Payments $343 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 4 % - 14% 6%
Probability of Payment 100 % - 100% 100%
Projected Year of Payment 2021 - 2024 2022

(1)    Unobservable inputs were weighted by the relative fair value of the contingent consideration liability. For projected year of payment, the amount represents the median of the inputs and is not a weighted average.
 143000000
 0.01
 0.02
 0.01
 0.80
 0.95
 0.92
 343000000
 0.04
 0.14
 0.06
 1
 1
 1

The aggregate carrying amount of our strategic investments was comprised of the following:

As of December 31,
-------------------------------------- ---- ---- --- ---
(in millions) 2021 2020
Equity method investments $ 259 $ 319
Measurement alternative investments(1) 142 183
Publicly-held securities(2) 10 414
Notes receivable — 2
 $ 412 $ 918

(1)    Measurement alternative investments are privately-held equity securities without readily determinable fair values that are measured at cost less impairment, if any, adjusted to fair value for any observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer, recognized in Other, net within our accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
(2)    Publicly-held equity securities are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in Other, net within our consolidated statements of operations.
 259000000
 319000000
 142000000
 183000000
 10000000
 414000000
 0
 2000000
 412000000
 918000000
 -178000000
 363000000
 289000000

NOTE C – ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE

On December 1, 2020, we announced the execution of a definitive agreement pursuant to which we agreed to sell our Specialty Pharmaceuticals business to Stark International Lux S.A.R.L., and SERB SAS, affiliates of SERB, a European specialty pharmaceutical group. On March 1, 2021, we completed the divestiture for a purchase price of approximately $800 million, which was subject to certain adjustments including cash on hand at the closing of the transaction. The agreement included the transfer of five facilities and approximately 280 employees globally.
We classified the assets and liabilities of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business (disposal group) as held for sale within our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020 at their respective carrying values, which approximated fair value, less costs to sell. Assets within the disposal group are presented within Assets held for sale and liabilities are presented within Other current liabilities within our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020.The carrying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities of the disposal group as of December 31, 2020 are presented below:
(in millions) As of December 31, 2020
--------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- -----
Cash $ 37
Trade accounts receivable, net 24
Inventories 79
Other current assets 17
Goodwill 175
Other intangible assets, net 758
Other long-term assets 45
Assets held for sale $ 1,133
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities $ 25
Other long-term liabilities 27
Deferred tax liability 148
Liabilities held for sale included in Other current liabilities $ 200
In addition, as of December 31, 2020, we had foreign currency translation adjustments of $107 million contained within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax attributable to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business that were released upon the closing of the transaction.
 800000000
 5
 280
 The carrying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities of the disposal group as of December 31, 2020 are presented below:
(in millions) As of December 31, 2020
--------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- -----
Cash $ 37
Trade accounts receivable, net 24
Inventories 79
Other current assets 17
Goodwill 175
Other intangible assets, net 758
Other long-term assets 45
Assets held for sale $ 1,133
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities $ 25
Other long-term liabilities 27
Deferred tax liability 148
Liabilities held for sale included in Other current liabilities $ 200

 37000000
 24000000
 79000000
 17000000
 175000000
 758000000
 45000000
 1133000000
 25000000
 27000000
 148000000
 200000000
 107000000

NOTE D – GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

The gross carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and the related accumulated amortization for intangible assets subject to amortization and accumulated goodwill impairment charges are as follows:

 As of December 31, 2021 As of December 31, 2020
---------------------------------- ----------------------- ------------------------------------- --------------------- ---------------------------------- - ------ - -------
(in millions) Gross Carrying Amount AccumulatedAmortization/Write-offs(1) Gross Carrying Amount AccumulatedAmortization/Write-offs
Technology-related $ 11,957 $ (6,754) $ 11,059 $ (6,179)
Patents 494 (398) 511 (407)
Other intangible assets 1,900 (1,325) 1,775 (1,220)
Amortizable intangible assets $ 14,351 $ (8,476) $ 13,345 $ (7,806)
Goodwill $ 21,888 $ (9,900) $ 19,924 $ (9,973)
IPR&D 126 257
Technology-related 120 120
Indefinite-lived intangible assets $ 246 $ 377

(1)    In the fourth quarter of 2020, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $73 million related to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business and classified the remaining assets and liabilities as held for sale as of December 31, 2020. On March 1, 2021, we completed the divestiture of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business. The goodwill impairment charges of $73 million related to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business are no longer presented within accumulated write-offs above as of December 31, 2021.

Intangible asset impairment charges were $370 million in 2021, $460 million in 2020 and $105 million in 2019. The impairment charges recorded in 2021 were primarily associated with intangible assets established in connection with our acquisition of Millipede, Inc. and VENITI, Inc. The impairment charges recorded in 2020 were primarily associated with intangible assets established in connection with our acquisitions of Sadra Medical, Inc., Apama Medical Inc. and nVision Medical Corporation (nVision). Each of these impairment charges were recorded following management’s decision to cancel
the programs due to the length of time, and remaining cost to complete and commercialize the technology, the cost to remediate quality issues or, specific to nVision, our understanding of the clinical evidence necessary to commercialize the technology.

The following represents our goodwill balance by global reportable segment and our separately presented Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment:

(in millions) MedSurg Rhythm and Neuro Cardiovascular Specialty Pharmaceuticals Total
----------------------------------------------------- ------- ---------------- -------------- ------------------------- ----- ----- - --- - ------
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ 2,061 $ 2,192 $ 5,676 $ 247 $ 10,176
Foreign currency fluctuations and other changes (2) 3 22 — 22
Goodwill impairment charges — — — (73) (73)
Goodwill reclassified to Current assets held for sale — — — (175) (175)
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 2,059 $ 2,194 $ 5,697 $ — $ 9,951
Foreign currency fluctuations and other changes (5) (1) (21) — (27)
Goodwill acquired 544 1,309 210 — 2,064
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 2,598 $ 3,503 $ 5,887 $ — $ 11,988

In 2021, we did not record any Goodwill impairment charges. In 2020, we recorded Goodwill impairment charges of $73 million related to our Specialty Pharmaceuticals business and classified the remaining assets and liabilities as held for sale as of December 31, 2020. We did not record any Goodwill impairment charges in 2019. Refer to Note A – Significant Accounting Policies for further discussion of our goodwill and intangible asset impairment testing.

Estimated Amortization expense for each of the five succeeding fiscal years based upon our amortizable intangible asset portfolio as of December 31, 2021 is as follows (in millions):

Fiscal Year
----------- --- ---
 2022 $ 752
 2023 738
 2024 703
 2025 644
 2026 620

The gross carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and the related accumulated amortization for intangible assets subject to amortization and accumulated goodwill impairment charges are as follows:

 As of December 31, 2021 As of December 31, 2020
---------------------------------- ----------------------- ------------------------------------- --------------------- ---------------------------------- - ------ - -------
(in millions) Gross Carrying Amount AccumulatedAmortization/Write-offs(1) Gross Carrying Amount AccumulatedAmortization/Write-offs
Technology-related $ 11,957 $ (6,754) $ 11,059 $ (6,179)
Patents 494 (398) 511 (407)
Other intangible assets 1,900 (1,325) 1,775 (1,220)
Amortizable intangible assets $ 14,351 $ (8,476) $ 13,345 $ (7,806)
Goodwill $ 21,888 $ (9,900) $ 19,924 $ (9,973)
IPR&D 126 257
Technology-related 120 120
Indefinite-lived intangible assets $ 246 $ 377

(1)    In the fourth quarter of 2020, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $73 million related to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business and classified the remaining assets and liabilities as held for sale as of December 31, 2020. On March 1, 2021, we completed the divestiture of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business. The goodwill impairment charges of $73 million related to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business are no longer presented within accumulated write-offs above as of December 31, 2021.
 11957000000
 6754000000
 11059000000
 6179000000
 494000000
 398000000
 511000000
 407000000
 1900000000
 1325000000
 1775000000
 1220000000
 14351000000
 8476000000
 13345000000
 7806000000
 21888000000
 9900000000
 19924000000
 9973000000
 126000000
 257000000
 120000000
 120000000
 246000000
 377000000
 73000000
 73000000
 370000000
 460000000
 105000000

The following represents our goodwill balance by global reportable segment and our separately presented Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment:

(in millions) MedSurg Rhythm and Neuro Cardiovascular Specialty Pharmaceuticals Total
----------------------------------------------------- ------- ---------------- -------------- ------------------------- ----- ----- - --- - ------
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ 2,061 $ 2,192 $ 5,676 $ 247 $ 10,176
Foreign currency fluctuations and other changes (2) 3 22 — 22
Goodwill impairment charges — — — (73) (73)
Goodwill reclassified to Current assets held for sale — — — (175) (175)
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 2,059 $ 2,194 $ 5,697 $ — $ 9,951
Foreign currency fluctuations and other changes (5) (1) (21) — (27)
Goodwill acquired 544 1,309 210 — 2,064
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 2,598 $ 3,503 $ 5,887 $ — $ 11,988

 2061000000
 2192000000
 5676000000
 247000000
 10176000000
 -2000000
 3000000
 22000000
 0
 22000000
 0
 0
 0
 73000000
 73000000
 0
 0
 0
 -175000000
 -175000000
 2059000000
 2194000000
 5697000000
 0
 9951000000
 -5000000
 -1000000
 -21000000
 0
 -27000000
 544000000
 1309000000
 210000000
 0
 2064000000
 2598000000
 3503000000
 5887000000
 0
 11988000000
 73000000

Estimated Amortization expense for each of the five succeeding fiscal years based upon our amortizable intangible asset portfolio as of December 31, 2021 is as follows (in millions):

Fiscal Year
----------- --- ---
 2022 $ 752
 2023 738
 2024 703
 2025 644
 2026 620

 752000000
 738000000
 703000000
 644000000
 620000000

NOTE E – HEDGING ACTIVITIES AND FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

We address market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates through risk management programs which include the use of derivative and nonderivative financial instruments. We operate these programs pursuant to documented corporate risk management policies and do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes. Our derivative instruments do not subject our earnings to material risk, as the gains or losses on these derivatives generally offset losses or gains recognized on the hedged item.
We manage concentration of counterparty credit risk by limiting acceptable counterparties to major financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings, limiting the amount of credit exposure to individual counterparties and by actively monitoring counterparty credit ratings and the amount of individual credit exposure. We also employ master netting arrangements that limit the risk of counterparty non-payment on a particular settlement date to the net gain that would have otherwise been received from the counterparty. Although not completely eliminated, we do not consider the risk of counterparty default to be significant as a result of these protections. Further, none of our derivative instruments are subject to collateral or other security arrangements, nor do they contain provisions that are dependent on our credit ratings from any credit rating agency.

Currency Hedging Instruments
Risk Management Strategy
Our risk from changes in currency exchange rates consists primarily of monetary assets and liabilities; forecasted intercompany and third-party transactions; net investments in certain subsidiaries; and, during 2019 prior to our acquisition of BTG, the purchase price of BTG, which was denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. We manage currency exchange rate risk at a consolidated level to reduce the cost of hedging by taking advantage of offsetting transactions. We employ derivative and nonderivative instruments, primarily forward currency contracts, to reduce the risk to our earnings and cash flows associated with changes in currency exchange rates.

The success of our currency risk management program depends, in part, on forecast transactions denominated primarily in euro, Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi and Australian dollar. We may experience unanticipated currency exchange gains or losses to the extent the actual activity is different than forecasted. In addition, changes in currency exchange rates related to any unhedged transactions may impact our earnings and cash flows.

Hedge Designations and Relationships

Certain of our currency derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges under FASB ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging (FASB ASC Topic 815), and are intended to protect the U.S. dollar value of forecasted transactions. The gain or loss on a derivative instrument designated as a cash flow hedge is recorded in the Net change in derivative financial instruments component of Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax (OCI) within our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) until the underlying third-party transaction occurs. When the underlying third-party transaction occurs, we recognize the gain or loss in earnings within Cost of products sold in our consolidated statements of operations. In the event the hedging relationship is no longer effective, or if the occurrence of the hedged forecast transaction becomes no longer probable, we reclassify the gains or losses within AOCI to earnings at that time.

We also designate certain forward currency contracts as net investment hedges to hedge a portion of our net investments in certain of our entities with functional currencies denominated in the Swiss franc, Japanese yen, British pound sterling, South Korean won and Taiwan dollar. For these derivative instruments, we elected to use the spot method to assess hedge effectiveness. We also elected to exclude the spot-forward difference, referred to as the excluded component, from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and are amortizing this amount separately, as calculated at the date of designation, on a straight-line basis over the term of the currency forward contracts. As such, we defer recognition of foreign currency gains and losses within the Foreign currency translation adjustment (CTA) component of OCI, and we reclassify amortization of the excluded component from AOCI to current period earnings within Interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations.

We designate certain euro-denominated debt as net investment hedges to hedge a portion of our net investments in certain of our entities with functional currencies denominated in the Euro. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, we designated as a net investment hedge a portion of our €900 million in aggregate principal amount of 0.625% senior notes issued in November 2019 and due in 2027. For these nonderivative instruments, we defer recognition of the foreign currency remeasurement gains and losses within the CTA component of OCI. We reclassify these gains and losses to current period earnings within Other, net in our consolidated statements of operations only when the hedged item affects earnings, which would occur upon disposal or substantial liquidation of the underlying foreign subsidiary.

We also use forward currency contracts that are not part of designated hedging relationships under FASB ASC Topic 815 as a part of our strategy to manage our exposure to currency exchange rate risk related to monetary assets and liabilities and related forecast transactions. These non-designated currency forward contracts have an original time to maturity consistent with the hedged currency transaction exposures, generally less than one year, and are marked-to-market with changes in fair value recorded to earnings within Other, net in our consolidated statements of operations.
Certain of our non-designated forward currency contracts were entered into for the purpose of managing our exposure to currency exchange rate risk related to the British pound sterling-denominated purchase price of BTG. In 2019, we settled all outstanding contracts, for $294 million, which is presented within Payments for settlements of hedge contracts in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Upon settlement in 2019, we received £3.312 billion of cash to fund our acquisition of BTG, which translated into $4.303 billion based on hedged currency exchange rates. We recognized a $323 million loss in 2019 in Other, net due to changes in fair value of the contracts.

Interest Rate Hedging Instruments
Risk Management Strategy

Our interest rate risk relates primarily to U.S. dollar and euro-denominated borrowings partially offset by U.S. dollar cash investments. We use interest rate derivative instruments to mitigate the risk to our earnings and cash flows associated with exposure to changes in interest rates. Under these agreements, we and the counterparty, at specified intervals, exchange the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. We designate these derivative instruments either as fair value or cash flow hedges in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815.

Hedge Designations and Relationships

We had no interest rate derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. Prior to 2020, we terminated interest rate derivative instruments that were designated as cash flow hedges and are continuing to recognize the amortization of the gains or losses originally recorded within AOCI to earnings as a component of Interest expense over the same period that the hedged item affects earnings, provided the hedge relationship remains effective. If we determine the hedge relationship is no longer effective, or if the occurrence of the hedged forecast transaction becomes no longer probable, we reclassify the amount of gains or losses from AOCI to earnings at that time.

In the event that we designate outstanding interest rate derivative instruments as cash flow hedges, we record the changes in the fair value of the derivatives within OCI until the underlying hedged transaction occurs. The balance of the deferred amounts on our terminated cash flow hedges within AOCI was a $24 million loss as of December 31, 2021 and a $29 million loss as of December 31, 2020.

We had no interest rate derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. Prior to 2018, we terminated interest rate derivative instruments that were designated as fair value hedges and are continuing to recognize the amortization of the gains or losses originally recorded within Long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheets into earnings as a component of Interest expense over the same period that the discount or premium associated with the hedged items affects earnings. In the event that we designate outstanding interest rate derivative instruments as fair value hedges, we record the changes in the fair values of interest rate derivatives designated as fair value hedges and of the underlying hedged debt instruments in Interest expense, which generally offset.

The following table presents the contractual amounts of our hedging instruments outstanding:
(in millions) FASB ASC Topic 815 Designation As of December 31,
------------------------------------ ------------------------------ ------------------ ----- ------ -----
 2021 2020
Forward currency contracts Cash flow hedge $ 3,996 $ 4,531
Forward currency contracts Net investment hedge 493 1,004
Foreign currency-denominated debt(1) Net investment hedge 997 868
Forward currency contracts Non-designated 3,892 4,946
Total Notional Outstanding $ 9,378 $ 11,349

(1)    Foreign currency-denominated debt is the portion of the €900 million debt principal designated as a net investment hedge.

The remaining time to maturity as of December 31, 2021 is within 60 months for all forward generally mature within the next year. The euro-denominated debt principal designated as a net investment hedge has a contractual maturity of December 1, 2027.
The following presents the effect of our derivative and nonderivative instruments designated as cash flow and net investment hedges under FASB ASC Topic 815 in our accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Refer to Note Q – Changes in Other Comprehensive Income for the total amounts relating to derivative and nonderivative instruments presented within our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss).

Effect of Hedging Relationships on Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- --------------------- ---------------------- ---- ----- - ---- - -- - ----
Amount Recognized in OCI on Hedges Consolidated Statements of Operations(1) Amount Reclassified from AOCI into Earnings
(in millions) Pre-Tax Gain (Loss) Tax Benefit (Expense) Gain (Loss) Net of Tax Location of Amount Reclassified and Total Amount of Line Item Pre-Tax (Gain) Loss Tax (Benefit) Expense (Gain) Loss Net of Tax
Year Ended December 31, 2021
Forward currency contracts
Cash flow hedges $ 268 $ (60) $ 208 Cost of products sold $ 3,711 $ (54) $ 12 $ (42)
Net investment hedges(2) 56 (13) 43 Interest expense 341 (13) 3 (10)
Foreign currency-denominated debt
Net investment hedges(3) 82 (19) 64 Other, net (218) — — —
Interest rate derivative contracts
Cash flow hedges — — — Interest expense 341 5 (1) 4
Year Ended December 31, 2020
Forward currency contracts
Cash flow hedges $ (99) $ 22 $ (77) Cost of products sold $ 3,465 $ (83) $ 19 $ (64)
Net investment hedges(2) (37) 8 (29) Interest expense 361 (24) 5 (19)
Foreign currency-denominated debt
Net investment hedges(3) (89) 21 (68) Other, net (362) — — —
Interest rate derivative contracts
Cash flow hedges — — — Interest expense 361 5 (1) 4
Year Ended December 31, 2019
Forward currency contracts
Cash flow hedges $ 150 $ (34) $ 117 Cost of products sold $ 3,116 $ (73) $ 16 $ (56)
Net investment hedges(2) 68 (15) 53 Interest expense 473 (43) 10 (33)
Foreign currency-denominated debt
Net investment hedges(3) (14) 3 (11) Other, net (358) — — —
Interest rate derivative contracts
Cash flow hedges — — — Interest expense 473 3 (1) 2

(1)    In all periods presented in the table above, the pre-tax (gain) loss amounts reclassified from AOCI to earnings represent the effect of the hedging relationships on earnings.
(2)    For our outstanding forward currency contracts designated as net investment hedges, the net gain or loss reclassified from AOCI to earnings as a reduction of Interest expense represents the straight-line amortization of the excluded component as calculated at the date of designation. This initial value of the excluded component has been excluded from the assessment of effectiveness in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815. In the current and prior period, we did not recognize any gains or losses on the components included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness in earnings.
(3)    For our outstanding euro-denominated debt principal designated as a net investment hedge, the change in fair value attributable to changes in the spot rate is recorded in the CTA component of OCI. No amounts were reclassified from AOCI to current period earnings.
As of December 31, 2021, pre-tax net gains or losses for our derivative instruments designated, or previously designated, as cash flow and net investment hedges under FASB ASC Topic 815 that may be reclassified from AOCI to earnings within the next twelve months are presented below (in millions):

Designated Hedging Instrument FASB ASC Topic 815 Designation Location on Consolidated Statements of Operations Amount of Pre-Tax Gain (Loss) that may be Reclassified to Earnings
---------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------ ---
Forward currency contracts Cash flow hedge Cost of products sold $ 127
Forward currency contracts Net investment hedge Interest expense 3
Interest rate derivative contracts Cash flow hedge Interest expense (5)

Net gains and losses on currency hedge contracts not designated as hedging instruments offset by net gains and losses from currency transaction exposures are presented below:

(in millions) Location on Consolidated Statements of Operations Year Ended December 31,
------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- -- ----- -----
 2021 2020 2019
Net gain (loss) on currency hedge contracts Other, net $ (16) $ 73 $ (343)
Net gain (loss) on currency transaction exposures Other, net (12) (105) (15)
Net currency exchange gain (loss) $ (27) $ (32) $ (358)

Fair Value Measurements

FASB ASC Topic 815 requires all derivative and nonderivative instruments to be recognized at their fair values as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet. We determine the fair value of our derivative and nonderivative instruments using the framework prescribed by FASB ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, and considering the estimated amount we would receive or pay to transfer these instruments at the reporting date with respect to current currency exchange rates, interest rates, the creditworthiness of the counterparty for unrealized gain positions and our own creditworthiness for unrealized loss positions. In certain instances, we may utilize financial models to measure fair value of our derivative and nonderivative instruments. In doing so, we use inputs that include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, other observable inputs for the asset or liability and inputs derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation or other means. The following are the balances of our derivative and nonderivative assets and liabilities:

(in millions) Location on Consolidated Balance Sheets(1) As of December 31,
---------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------ ------------------ ----- ----- ---
 2021 2020
Derivative and Nonderivative Assets:
Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current assets $ 183 $ 53
Forward currency contracts Other long-term assets 169 109
 352 162
Non-Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current assets 42 79
Total Derivative and Nonderivative Assets $ 394 $ 242
Derivative and Nonderivative Liabilities:
Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current liabilities $ 32 $ 44
Forward currency contracts Other long-term liabilities 6 54
Foreign currency-denominated debt(2) Other long-term liabilities 1,011 1,094
 1,049 1,191
Non-Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current liabilities 22 71
Total Derivative and Nonderivative Liabilities $ 1,071 $ 1,262

(1)We classify derivative and nonderivative assets and liabilities as current when the settlement date of the contract is one year or less.
(2)Foreign currency-denominated debt is the portion of the €900 million debt principal designated as a net investment hedge. A portion of this notional is subject to de-designation and re-designation based on changes in the underlying hedged item.

Recurring Fair Value Measurements
On a recurring basis, we measure certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value based upon quoted market prices. Where quoted market prices or other observable inputs are not available, we apply valuation techniques to estimate fair value. FASB ASC Topic 820 establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements. of the hierarchy are defined as follows:
•Level 1 – Inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2 – Inputs to the valuation methodology are other observable inputs, including quoted market prices for similar assets or liabilities and market-corroborated inputs.
•Level 3 – Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable inputs based on management’s best estimate of inputs market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date, including assumptions about risk.
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis consist of the following:

As of
------------------------------------ ----------------- ----------------- ------- ----- ------- ------- ------- ----- - ----- - ----- - --- - -----
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
(in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets
Money market funds and time deposits $ 1,632 $ — $ — $ 1,632 $ 1,584 $ — $ — $ 1,584
Publicly-held securities 10 — — 10 414 — — 414
Hedging instruments — 394 — 394 — 242 — 242
Licensing arrangements — — 246 246 — — 365 365
 $ 1,642 $ 394 $ 246 $ 2,282 $ 1,998 $ 242 $ 365 $ 2,605
Liabilities
Hedging instruments $ — $ 1,071 $ — $ 1,071 $ — $ 1,262 $ — $ 1,262
Contingent consideration liability — — 486 486 — — 196 196
Licensing arrangements — — 281 281 — — 407 407
 $ — $ 1,071 $ 767 $ 1,838 $ — $ 1,262 $ 603 $ 1,865

Our investments in money market funds and time deposits are classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices. These investments are classified as Cash and cash equivalents within our accompanying consolidated balance sheets, in accordance with U.S. GAAP and our accounting policies. In addition to $1.632 billion invested in money market funds and time deposits as of December 31, 2021 and $1.584 billion as of December 31, 2020, we held $293 million in interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing bank accounts as of December 31, 2021 and $150 million as of December 31, 2020.

Our recurring fair value measurements using Level 3 inputs include those related to our contingent consideration liability. Refer to Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments for a discussion of the changes in the fair value of our contingent consideration liability. In addition, our recurring fair value measurements using Level 3 inputs related to our licensing arrangements, including the contractual right to receive future royalty payments related to the Zytiga™ Drug. We recognized a financial asset and associated liability for our licensing arrangements at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets using the fair value option in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 825, Financial Instruments.

We own the contractual right to receive 50 percent of the future ZytigaTM Drug royalty payments from the licensee and remit such payments to the inventors associated with the intellectual property. Royalty payments we receive reduce the fair value of the financial asset and are presented within Proceeds from royalty rights, and payments we remit to inventors reduce the fair value of the financial liability and are presented within Payments for royalty rights within our consolidated statements of cash flows. We sold our right to receive and retain the other 50 percent of the future royalty payments in 2019 for an upfront cash payment, which we accounted for as a secured borrowing in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing. Although we sold these rights, we continue to recognize at fair value the future royalty payments as a financial asset and associated liability. Royalty payments associated with the rights we sold no longer impact our cash flows, and we present this activity as Non-cash impact of transferred royalty rights in the supplemental information to our consolidated statements of cash flows. We reduce the fair value of the financial asset and associated liability when such non-cash activity occurs.

We have stream. The fair value of the financial liability also considers the related contractual provisions that govern our payment obligations. Significant increases or decreases in projected cash flows of the royalty stream and the related contractual provisions that govern our payment obligations, discount rates or the time until payment is made would have resulted in a significantly lower or higher fair value measurement of the licensing arrangements']:
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS Frame.io On October 7, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Frame.io, a privately held company that provides a cloud-based video collaboration platform, for approximately $1.18 billion, primarily in cash consideration. The financial results of Frame.io have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisition. Frame.io is reported as part of our Digital Media reportable segment. The table below represents the preliminary purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of October 7, 2021. The fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management's best estimates and assumptions as of the reporting date. Fair values associated with the net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill were pending finalization as of the reporting date. --------------------------------------- ------ ----- ------------------------------------ --- - (dollars in millions) Amount Weighted Average Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. (2) Non-deductible for tax-purposes. Pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Frame.io acquisition as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. 70 ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 ...

[' financial liability were as follows:
(in millions)
--------------------------------------- ----- ---
Balance as of December 31, 2019 $ 571
Payments for royalty rights (186)
Fair value adjustment expense (benefit) 22
Balance as of December 31, 2020 $ 407
Payments for royalty rights (166)
Fair value adjustment expense (benefit) 41
Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 281

Non-Recurring Fair Value Measurements

We hold certain assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis in periods after initial recognition. The fair value of a measurement alternative investment is not estimated if there are no identified events or changes in circumstances that may have a significant adverse effect on the fair value of the investment. Refer to Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments for a discussion of our strategic investments and Note D – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for a discussion of the fair values of our intangible assets including goodwill.

The fair value of our outstanding debt obligations was $10.196 billion as of December 31, 2021, including $1.020 billion relating to our euro-denominated December 2027 Notes, and $10.774 billion as of December 31, 2020, including $1.118 billion relating to our euro-denominated December 2027 Notes. We determined fair value by using quoted market prices for our publicly registered senior notes, classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy, and face value for commercial paper, term loans and credit facility borrowings outstanding. Refer to Note F – Contractual Obligations and Commitments for a discussion of our debt obligations.
 900000000
 0.00625
 294000000
 3312000000
 4303000000
 -323000000
 24000000
 29000000
 The following table presents the contractual amounts of our hedging instruments outstanding:
(in millions) FASB ASC Topic 815 Designation As of December 31,
------------------------------------ ------------------------------ ------------------ ----- ------ -----
 2021 2020
Forward currency contracts Cash flow hedge $ 3,996 $ 4,531
Forward currency contracts Net investment hedge 493 1,004
Foreign currency-denominated debt(1) Net investment hedge 997 868
Forward currency contracts Non-designated 3,892 4,946
Total Notional Outstanding $ 9,378 $ 11,349

 3996000000
 4531000000
 493000000
 1004000000
 997000000
 868000000
 3892000000
 4946000000
 9378000000
 11349000000
 900000000
 60

The following presents the effect of our derivative and nonderivative instruments designated as cash flow and net investment hedges under FASB ASC Topic 815 in our accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Refer to Note Q – Changes in Other Comprehensive Income for the total amounts relating to derivative and nonderivative instruments presented within our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss).

Effect of Hedging Relationships on Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- --------------------- ---------------------- ---- ----- - ---- - -- - ----
Amount Recognized in OCI on Hedges Consolidated Statements of Operations(1) Amount Reclassified from AOCI into Earnings
(in millions) Pre-Tax Gain (Loss) Tax Benefit (Expense) Gain (Loss) Net of Tax Location of Amount Reclassified and Total Amount of Line Item Pre-Tax (Gain) Loss Tax (Benefit) Expense (Gain) Loss Net of Tax
Year Ended December 31, 2021
Forward currency contracts
Cash flow hedges $ 268 $ (60) $ 208 Cost of products sold $ 3,711 $ (54) $ 12 $ (42)
Net investment hedges(2) 56 (13) 43 Interest expense 341 (13) 3 (10)
Foreign currency-denominated debt
Net investment hedges(3) 82 (19) 64 Other, net (218) — — —
Interest rate derivative contracts
Cash flow hedges — — — Interest expense 341 5 (1) 4
Year Ended December 31, 2020
Forward currency contracts
Cash flow hedges $ (99) $ 22 $ (77) Cost of products sold $ 3,465 $ (83) $ 19 $ (64)
Net investment hedges(2) (37) 8 (29) Interest expense 361 (24) 5 (19)
Foreign currency-denominated debt
Net investment hedges(3) (89) 21 (68) Other, net (362) — — —
Interest rate derivative contracts
Cash flow hedges — — — Interest expense 361 5 (1) 4
Year Ended December 31, 2019
Forward currency contracts
Cash flow hedges $ 150 $ (34) $ 117 Cost of products sold $ 3,116 $ (73) $ 16 $ (56)
Net investment hedges(2) 68 (15) 53 Interest expense 473 (43) 10 (33)
Foreign currency-denominated debt
Net investment hedges(3) (14) 3 (11) Other, net (358) — — —
Interest rate derivative contracts
Cash flow hedges — — — Interest expense 473 3 (1) 2

(1)    In all periods presented in the table above, the pre-tax (gain) loss amounts reclassified from AOCI to earnings represent the effect of the hedging relationships on earnings.
(2)    For our outstanding forward currency contracts designated as net investment hedges, the net gain or loss reclassified from AOCI to earnings as a reduction of Interest expense represents the straight-line amortization of the excluded component as calculated at the date of designation. This initial value of the excluded component has been excluded from the assessment of effectiveness in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 815. In the current and prior period, we did not recognize any gains or losses on the components included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness in earnings.
(3)    For our outstanding euro-denominated debt principal designated as a net investment hedge, the change in fair value attributable to changes in the spot rate is recorded in the CTA component of OCI. No amounts were reclassified from AOCI to current period earnings.
 268000000
 -60000000
 208000000
 3711000000
 -54000000
 12000000
 -42000000
 56000000
 -13000000
 43000000
 341000000
 -13000000
 3000000
 10000000
 82000000
 -19000000
 64000000
 -218000000
 0
 0
 0
 0
 0
 0
 341000000
 -5000000
 -1000000
 4000000
 -99000000
 22000000
 -77000000
 3465000000
 -83000000
 19000000
 -64000000
 37000000
 -8000000
 29000000
 361000000
 24000000
 5000000
 -19000000
 -89000000
 21000000
 -68000000
 -362000000
 0
 0
 0
 0
 0
 0
 361000000
 -5000000
 -1000000
 4000000
 150000000
 -34000000
 117000000
 3116000000
 -73000000
 16000000
 -56000000
 -68000000
 15000000
 -53000000
 473000000
 43000000
 10000000
 -33000000
 -14000000
 3000000
 -11000000
 -358000000
 0
 0
 0
 0
 0
 0
 473000000
 -3000000
 -1000000
 2000000

As of December 31, 2021, pre-tax net gains or losses for our derivative instruments designated, or previously designated, as cash flow and net investment hedges under FASB ASC Topic 815 that may be reclassified from AOCI to earnings within the next twelve months are presented below (in millions):

Designated Hedging Instrument FASB ASC Topic 815 Designation Location on Consolidated Statements of Operations Amount of Pre-Tax Gain (Loss) that may be Reclassified to Earnings
---------------------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------ ---
Forward currency contracts Cash flow hedge Cost of products sold $ 127
Forward currency contracts Net investment hedge Interest expense 3
Interest rate derivative contracts Cash flow hedge Interest expense (5)

 127000000
 3000000
 -5000000

Net gains and losses on currency hedge contracts not designated as hedging instruments offset by net gains and losses from currency transaction exposures are presented below:

(in millions) Location on Consolidated Statements of Operations Year Ended December 31,
------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----- ---- -- ----- -----
 2021 2020 2019
Net gain (loss) on currency hedge contracts Other, net $ (16) $ 73 $ (343)
Net gain (loss) on currency transaction exposures Other, net (12) (105) (15)
Net currency exchange gain (loss) $ (27) $ (32) $ (358)

 -16000000
 73000000
 -343000000
 -12000000
 -105000000
 -15000000
 -27000000
 -32000000
 -358000000
 FASB ASC Topic 815 requires all derivative and nonderivative instruments to be recognized at their fair values as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet. We determine the fair value of our derivative and nonderivative instruments using the framework prescribed by FASB ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, and considering the estimated amount we would receive or pay to transfer these instruments at the reporting date with respect to current currency exchange rates, interest rates, the creditworthiness of the counterparty for unrealized gain positions and our own creditworthiness for unrealized loss positions. In certain instances, we may utilize financial models to measure fair value of our derivative and nonderivative instruments. In doing so, we use inputs that include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, other observable inputs for the asset or liability and inputs derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation or other means.
 The following are the balances of our derivative and nonderivative assets and liabilities:

(in millions) Location on Consolidated Balance Sheets(1) As of December 31,
---------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------ ------------------ ----- ----- ---
 2021 2020
Derivative and Nonderivative Assets:
Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current assets $ 183 $ 53
Forward currency contracts Other long-term assets 169 109
 352 162
Non-Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current assets 42 79
Total Derivative and Nonderivative Assets $ 394 $ 242
Derivative and Nonderivative Liabilities:
Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current liabilities $ 32 $ 44
Forward currency contracts Other long-term liabilities 6 54
Foreign currency-denominated debt(2) Other long-term liabilities 1,011 1,094
 1,049 1,191
Non-Designated Hedging Instruments
Forward currency contracts Other current liabilities 22 71
Total Derivative and Nonderivative Liabilities $ 1,071 $ 1,262

(1)We classify derivative and nonderivative assets and liabilities as current when the settlement date of the contract is one year or less.
(2)Foreign currency-denominated debt is the portion of the €900 million debt principal designated as a net investment hedge. A portion of this notional is subject to de-designation and re-designation based on changes in the underlying hedged item.
 183000000
 53000000
 169000000
 109000000
 352000000
 162000000
 42000000
 79000000
 394000000
 242000000
 32000000
 44000000
 6000000
 54000000
 1011000000
 1094000000
 1049000000
 1191000000
 22000000
 71000000
 1071000000
 1262000000
 900000000

Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis consist of the following:

As of
------------------------------------ ----------------- ----------------- ------- ----- ------- ------- ------- ----- - ----- - ----- - --- - -----
 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
(in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets
Money market funds and time deposits $ 1,632 $ — $ — $ 1,632 $ 1,584 $ — $ — $ 1,584
Publicly-held securities 10 — — 10 414 — — 414
Hedging instruments — 394 — 394 — 242 — 242
Licensing arrangements — — 246 246 — — 365 365
 $ 1,642 $ 394 $ 246 $ 2,282 $ 1,998 $ 242 $ 365 $ 2,605
Liabilities
Hedging instruments $ — $ 1,071 $ — $ 1,071 $ — $ 1,262 $ — $ 1,262
Contingent consideration liability — — 486 486 — — 196 196
Licensing arrangements — — 281 281 — — 407 407
 $ — $ 1,071 $ 767 $ 1,838 $ — $ 1,262 $ 603 $ 1,865

The recurring Level 3 fair value measurements of our licensing arrangements recognized in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2021 include the following significant unobservable inputs:

Licensing Arrangements Fair Value as of December 31, 2021 Valuation Technique Unobservable Input Range Weighted Average(1)
------------------------- ---------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------ ----- ------------------- --- ---
Financial Asset $246 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 15% 15%
Projected Year of Payment 2022 - 2025 2023
Financial Liability $281 million Discounted Cash Flow Discount Rate 12% - 15% 13%
Projected Year of Payment 2022 - 2026 2024

(1)    Unobservable inputs relate to a single financial asset and liability. As such, unobservable inputs were not weighted by the relative fair value of the instruments. For projected year of payment, the amount represents the median of the inputs and is not a weighted average.

Changes in the fair value of our licensing arrangements']:
(31) (a) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Ryan R. Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer (Filed herewith) (b) Rule 13a-14(a) Certification by Robert T. O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Filed herewith) (32) Certification Pursuant to 18 United States Code § 1350 and Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Furnished herewith) 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the inline XBRL document. 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF InlineXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document) 75 * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement